Item 1A “Risk Factors” of
this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT

We continually enhance and expand our existing offerings
and develop new offerings to meet evolving user needs for technological
innovation and a deeper more integrated user experience.

As a complement to our core engineering and production
teams, we also have scientists working in our Yahoo! Research Labs dedicated to
developing novel algorithms and technology that empower users, businesses,
advertisers, and publishers worldwide to maximize the social and economic
potential of the Internet.  Yahoo!
performs research to address fundamental problems facing users, such as: making
their search for information on the Internet easier and more efficient;
bringing them tools to help solve their problems; finding new and better ways
for them to connect and communicate with family and friends; and guiding family
and friends towards high-quality products, songs, movies, and other resources.  We also help advertisers connect with
customers most likely to be interested in their products, maximizing the
advertisers’ marketing investments and providing a better overall user
experience.

Our engineering and
production teams are primarily located in our Sunnyvale, California
headquarters and in Burbank, California; Dallas, Texas; and Bangalore, India.  Our research teams are located in our
Sunnyvale, California headquarters and in Berkeley, California; Burbank,
California; New York, New York; Barcelona, Spain; and Santiago, Chile.  Domestic teams handle most international
product 


 14 





development and
engineering.  We have developed
internally, acquired or licensed the products and services we offer.  Product development expenses totaled
approximately $207 million, $369 million, and $547 million for 2003,
2004, and 2005, respectively.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

We create, own and
maintain a wide array of intellectual property assets that we believe are among
our most valuable assets.  Our
intellectual property assets include patents and patent applications related to
our innovations, products and services; trademarks related to our brands,
products and services; copyrights in software and creative content; trade
secrets; and other intellectual property rights and licenses of various kinds.  We seek to protect our intellectual property
assets through patent, copyright, trade secret, trademark and other laws of the
United States and other countries of the world, and through contractual
provisions.  We enter into
confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and
contractors, and non-disclosure agreements with third parties with whom we
conduct business in order to limit access to, and disclosure of, our
proprietary information.  We consider the
Yahoo! trademark and our many related trademarks to be among our most valuable
assets and we have registered these trademarks in the United States and other
countries throughout the world and aggressively seek to protect them.  We have licensed in the past, and expect that
we may license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights, such as
trademark, patent, copyright and trade secret rights to third parties.  Additional information regarding certain
risks related to our intellectual property is included in Part I, Item 1A “Risk
Factors” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

EMPLOYEES

As of December 31,
2005, we had approximately 9,800 full-time employees.  Our future success is substantially dependent
on the performance of our senior management and key technical personnel, and
our continuing ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical and
managerial personnel.  Additional
information regarding certain risks related to our employees is included in Part I,
Item 1A “Risk Factors” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

Our website is located at
http://www.yahoo.com.  Our investor relations website is
located at http://yhoo.client.shareholder.com/.  We make available free of charge on
our investor relations website under “SEC Filings” our Annual Reports on Form 10-K,
Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K
and any amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we
electronically file or furnish such materials to the U.S.  Securities and Exchange Commission  (“SEC”).  Further,
a copy of this annual report on Form 10-K is located at the SEC’s
Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington, D.C. 20549.  Information on the operation of the Public
Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  The SEC maintains an Internet site that
contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information
regarding our filings at http://www.sec.gov.


 15










Item 1A. Risk Factors

We face significant
competition from large-scale Internet content, product and service aggregators,
principally Time Warner’s AOL, Google and Microsoft.

We face significant
competition from companies, principally AOL, Google, and Microsoft, that have
aggregated a variety of Internet products, services and content in a manner
similar to Yahoo!.  AOL has access to
content from Time Warner’s movie, television, music, book, periodical, news,
sports and other media holdings; access to a network of cable and other
broadband users and delivery technologies; and considerable resources for
future growth and expansion.  Google, in
addition to an Internet search service, offers many other services that
directly compete with our services, including a consumer e-mail service,
desktop search, local search, instant messaging, photos, maps, shopping
services and advertising solutions.  Microsoft
has introduced its own Internet search service and has announced plans to
develop both paid search and features that may make Internet searching
capabilities a more integrated part of its Windows operating system.  We expect these competitors increasingly to
use their financial and engineering resources to compete with us, individually,
and potentially in combination with each other. 
In certain of these cases, most notably AOL, our competition has a
direct billing relationship with a greater number of their users through
Internet access and other services than we have with our users through our
premium services.  This relationship may
permit these competitors to be more effective than us in targeting services and
advertisements to the specific preferences of their users thereby giving them a
competitive advantage.  If our
competitors are more successful than we are in developing compelling products
or attracting and retaining users or advertisers, then our revenues and growth
rates could decline.

We also face
competition from other Internet service companies, including Internet access
providers, device manufacturers offering online services and destination
websites.

Our users must access our services through Internet
access providers, including wireless providers and providers of cable and
broadband Internet access.  To the extent
that an access provider or device manufacturer offers online services
competitive with those of Yahoo!, the user may elect to use the services or
properties of that access provider or manufacturer.  In addition, the access provider or
manufacturer may make it difficult to access our services by not listing them
in the access provider’s or manufacturer’s own directory or by providing Yahoo!
with less prominent listings than the access provider, manufacturer, or a
competitor’s offerings.  Such access
providers and manufacturers may prove better able to target services and
advertisements to the preferences of their users.  If such access providers and device
manufacturers are more successful than we are in developing compelling products
or attracting and retaining customers, users or advertisers, then our revenues
could decline.  Further, to the extent
that Internet access providers, mobile service providers or network providers
increase the costs of service to users or restrict Yahoo!’s ability to deliver
products, services and content to end users or increase our costs of doing so,
our revenues could decline.

We also compete for customers, users and advertisers
with many other providers of online services, including destination websites.  Some of these competitors may have more
expertise in a particular segment of the market, and within such segment, have
longer operating histories, larger advertiser or user bases, and more brand
recognition or technological features than we offer.

In the future, competitors
may acquire additional competitive offerings or consolidate with each other to
become more competitive, and new competitors may enter the market.  If our competitors are more successful than
we are in developing compelling products or attracting and retaining users,
advertisers or customers, then our revenues and growth rates could decline.


 16 





We face competition from other providers of search
marketing that could affect our operating results.

We compete directly with
other providers of search marketing, including Google, LookSmart, Ltd.,
Lycos Inc., Microsoft, and MIVA (formerly FindWhat.com).  In addition, we believe it is likely that
there will be additional entrants to this advertising market.  Some of the existing competitors and possible
additional entrants may have greater operational, strategic, financial,
personnel or other resources than we do, as well as greater brand recognition.  These competitors compete against us for
affiliate and advertiser arrangements and could cause us to have to enter into
such arrangements with less favorable terms, to lose current affiliates or
advertisers or to fail to acquire new affiliates or advertisers.  The loss of affiliates or advertisers or a
reduction in the revenue from such arrangements could harm our business and
operating results.

We face significant
competition from traditional media companies which could adversely affect our
future operating results.

We also compete with
traditional media companies for advertising. 
Most advertisers currently spend only a small portion of their
advertising budgets on Internet advertising. 
If we fail to persuade existing advertisers to retain and increase their
spending with us and if we fail to persuade new advertisers to spend a portion
of their budget on advertising with us, our revenues could decline and our future
operating results could be adversely affected.

If we are unable to
provide search technologies and other services which generate significant
traffic to our websites, or we are unable to enter into distribution
relationships which drive significant traffic to our websites, our business
could be harmed, causing our revenues to decline.

We have deployed our own
Internet search technology to provide search results on our network.  We have more limited experience in operating
our own search service than do some of our competitors.  Internet search is characterized by rapidly
changing technology, significant competition, evolving industry standards and
frequent product and service enhancements. 
We must continually invest in improving our users’ experience, including
search relevance, speed and services responsive to their needs and preferences,
to continue to attract, retain and expand our user base.  If we are unable to provide search
technologies and other services which generate significant traffic to our
websites, or if we are unable to enter into distribution relationships that
continue to drive significant traffic to our websites, our business could be
harmed, causing our revenues to decline.

The majority of our
revenues are derived from marketing services, and the reduction in spending by
or loss of current or potential advertisers would cause our revenues and
operating results to decline.

For the year ended December 31,
2005, 87 percent of our total revenues came from marketing services.  Our ability to continue to retain and grow
marketing services revenue depends upon:

·       maintaining
our user base;

·       broadening
our relationships with advertisers to small and medium size businesses;

·       attracting
advertisers to our user base;

·       increasing
demand for our marketing services by advertisers, users and businesses,
including prices paid by advertisers, the number of searches performed by users
and the rate at which users click-through to commercial search results;

·       the
effectiveness, and acceptance by advertisers, of our systems improvements to
increase monetization of our search marketing ;

·       maintaining
our affiliate program for our search marketing;


 17 





·       deriving
better demographic and other information from our users; and

·       driving
continued acceptance of the web by advertisers as an advertising medium.

In many cases, our
agreements with advertisers have terms of one year or less, or, in the case of
search marketing, may be terminated at any time by the advertiser.  Search marketing agreements often have
payments contingent upon usage or click-through levels.  Accordingly, it is difficult to forecast marketing
services revenues accurately.  However,
our expense levels are based in part on expectations of future revenues,
including occasional guaranteed minimum payments to our affiliates in
connection with search marketing, and are fixed over the short-term with
respect to certain categories.  Any
reduction in spending by or loss of existing or potential future advertisers
would cause our revenues to decline.  Further,
we may be unable to adjust spending quickly enough to compensate for any
unexpected revenue shortfall.

In certain markets,
we depend on a limited number of sources to direct a significant percentage of
users and businesses to our service to conduct searches and a loss of any of
these sources could harm our operating results.

A significant percentage
of users and businesses that conduct searches and access our search marketing
listings comes from a limited number of sources in certain markets.  In addition to the Yahoo! Properties, sources
for users are members of our affiliate network, including portals, browsers and
other affiliates.  Our agreements with
affiliates vary in duration, and depending on the agreement, provide varying
levels of discretion to the affiliate in the implementation of search
marketing, including the degree to which affiliates can modify the presentation
of the search marketing listings on their websites or integrate search
marketing with their own services.  The
agreements may be terminable upon the occurrence of certain events, including
failure to meet certain service levels, material breaches of agreement terms,
changes in control or in some instances, at will.  We may not be successful in renewing our affiliate
agreements on as favorable terms or at all. 
The loss of affiliates providing significant users or businesses or an
adverse change in implementation of search marketing by any of these affiliates
could harm our ability to generate revenue, our operating results and cash
flows from operations.

We may not be able to generate substantial revenues
from our alliances with Internet access providers.

Through alliances with
Internet access providers, we offer access services that combine customized
content and services from Yahoo! (including browser and other communications
services) and Internet access from the third party access providers.  We may not be able to retain the alliances
with our existing Internet access providers or to obtain new alliances with
Internet access providers on terms that are reasonable.  In addition, these Internet access services
compete with many large companies such as AOL, Microsoft, Comcast Corporation
and other established Internet access providers.  In certain of these cases, our competition
has substantially greater market presence (including an existing user base) and
greater financial, technical, marketing or other resources.  As a result of these and other competitive
factors, the Internet access providers with which we have formed alliances may
not be able to attract, grow or retain their customer bases, which would
negatively impact our ability to sell customized content and services through
this channel and, in turn, reduce our anticipated revenues from our alliances.

Some of our shared revenue arrangements may not
generate anticipated revenues.

We typically
receive co-branded revenue through revenue sharing arrangements or a portion of
transactions revenue.  In some cases, our
revenue arrangements require that minimum levels of user impressions be
provided by us.  These arrangements
expose us to potentially significant financial risks in the event our usage
levels decrease, including the following:

·       the
revenue we are entitled to receive may be adjusted downwards;


 18 





·       we
may be required to “make good” on our obligations by providing additional
advertising or alternative services;

·       the
partners or co-brand services may not renew the arrangements or may renew at
lower rates; and

·       the
arrangements may not generate anticipated levels of shared transactions
revenue, or partners may default on the payment commitments in such agreements
as has occurred in the past.

Accordingly, any leveling
off or decrease of our user base (or usage by our existing base) or the failure
to generate anticipated levels of shared transactions revenue could result in a
significant decrease in our revenues.

Decreases or delays
in advertising spending by our advertisers due to general economic conditions
could harm our ability to generate advertising revenue.

Expenditures by
advertisers tend to be cyclical, reflecting overall economic conditions and
budgeting and buying patterns.  Since we
derive the majority of our revenues from advertising, any decreases in or
delays in advertising spending due to general economic conditions could reduce
our revenues or negatively impact our ability to grow our revenues.

Financial results for any particular period do not
predict results for future periods.

There can be no assurance
that the purchasing pattern of advertisers on the Yahoo! Properties will not
fluctuate, that advertisers will not make smaller and shorter-term purchases,
or that market prices for online advertising will not decrease due to
competitive or other factors.  In
addition, there can be no assurance that the volume of searches conducted, the
amounts bid by advertisers for search marketing listings or the number of
advertisers that bid in our search marketing marketplace will not vary widely
from period to period.  As revenues from
new sources increase, it may become more difficult to predict our financial
results based on historical performance. 
You should not rely on the results for any period as an indication of
future performance.

We rely on the
value of the Yahoo! brands, and a failure to maintain or enhance the Yahoo!
brands in a cost-effective manner could harm our operating results.

We believe that
maintaining and enhancing the Yahoo! brands is an important aspect of our
efforts to attract and expand our user and advertiser base.  We also believe that the importance of brand
recognition will increase due to the relatively low barriers to entry in the
Internet market.  We have spent
considerable money and resources to date on the establishment and maintenance
of the Yahoo! brands, and we anticipate spending increasing amounts of money
on, and devoting greater resources to, advertising, marketing and other brand-building
efforts to preserve and enhance consumer awareness of the Yahoo! brands.  We may not be able to successfully maintain
or enhance consumer awareness of the Yahoo! brands and, even if we are
successful in our branding efforts, these efforts may not be cost-effective.  If we are unable to maintain or enhance
customer awareness of the Yahoo! brands in a cost-effective manner, our business,
operating results and financial condition could be harmed.

If we are unable to
license or acquire compelling content at reasonable costs or if we do not
develop compelling content, the number of users of our services may not grow as
anticipated, or may decline, which could harm our operating results.

Our future success depends
in part upon our ability to aggregate compelling content and deliver that
content through our online properties.  We
license much of the content on our online properties, such as news items, stock
quotes, weather reports, maps and audio and video content from third parties.  We have been providing increasing amounts of
audio and video content to our users, and we believe that users will 


 19 





increasingly demand
high-quality audio and video content, such as music, film, speeches, news
footage, concerts and other special events. 
Such content may require us to make substantial payments to third
parties from whom we license or acquire such content.  For example, our music and entertainment
properties rely on major sports organizations, radio and television stations,
record labels, music publishers, cable networks, businesses, colleges and
universities, film producers and distributors, and other organizations for a
large portion of the content available on our properties.  Our ability to maintain and build
relationships with third-party content providers will be critical to our
success.  In addition, as new methods for
accessing the Internet become available, including through alternative devices, we may need to
enter into amended content agreements with existing third-party content
providers to cover the new devices.  Also,
to the extent that Yahoo! develops content of its own, Yahoo!’s current and
potential third-party content providers may view our services as competitive
with their own, and this may adversely affect their willingness to contract
with us.  We may be unable to enter into
new, or preserve existing, relationships with the third parties whose content
we seek to obtain.  In addition, as
competition for compelling content increases both domestically and
internationally, our content providers may increase the prices at which they
offer their content to us, and potential content providers may not offer their
content on terms agreeable to us.  An
increase in the prices charged to us by third-party content providers
could harm our operating results and financial condition.  Further, many of our content licenses with
third parties are non-exclusive.  Accordingly,
other webcasters and other media such as radio or television may be able to
offer similar or identical content.  This
increases the importance of our ability to deliver compelling editorial content
and personalization of this content for users in order to differentiate Yahoo! from
other businesses.  If we are unable to
license or acquire compelling content at reasonable prices, if other companies
broadcast content that is similar to or the same as that provided by Yahoo!, or
if we do not develop compelling editorial content or personalization services,
the number of users of our services may not grow as anticipated, or may
decline, which could harm our operating results.

Our intellectual
property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce
the value of our brand image and harm our business and our operating results.

We create, own and
maintain a wide array of intellectual property assets, including copyrights,
patents, trademarks, trade dress, trade secrets and rights to certain domain
names, which we believe are among our most valuable assets.  We seek to protect our intellectual property
assets through patent, copyright, trade secret, trademark and other laws of the
United States and other countries of the world, and through contractual
provisions.  The efforts we have taken to
protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights may not be sufficient
or effective at stopping unauthorized use of those rights.  In addition, effective trademark, patent,
copyright and trade secret protection may not be available or cost-effective in
every country in which our products and media properties are distributed or
made available through the Internet.  There
may be instances where we are not able to fully protect or utilize our
intellectual property assets in a manner to maximize competitive advantages.  Further, while we attempt to ensure that the
quality of our brand is maintained by our licensees, our licensees may take
actions that could impair the value of our brand, our proprietary rights or the
reputation of our products and media properties.  We are aware that third parties have, from
time to time, copied significant content available on Yahoo! for use in
competitive Internet services.  Protection
of the distinctive elements of Yahoo! may not be available under copyright law.  If we are unable to protect our proprietary
rights from unauthorized use, the value of our brand image may be reduced.  Any impairment of our brand could negatively
impact our business.  In addition,
protecting our intellectual property and other proprietary rights is expensive
and time consuming.  Any increase in the
unauthorized use of our intellectual property could make it more expensive to
do business and consequently harm our operating results.


 20 





We are, and may in
the future be, subject to intellectual property infringement claims, which are
costly to defend, could result in significant damage awards, and could limit
our ability to provide certain content or use certain technologies in the
future.

Internet, technology, media companies and patent
holding companies often possess a significant number of patents.  Further, many of these companies and other
parties are actively developing or purchasing search, indexing, electronic
commerce and other Internet-related technologies, as well as a variety of
online business models and methods.  We
believe that these parties will continue to take steps to protect these
technologies, including, but not limited to, seeking patent protection.  As a result, disputes regarding the ownership
of technologies and rights associated with online business are likely to
continue to arise in the future.  From
time to time, parties assert patent infringement claims against us.  Currently, we are engaged in several lawsuits
regarding patent issues and have been notified of a number of other potential
disputes.

In addition to patent claims, third parties have
asserted, and are likely in the future to assert, claims against us alleging
infringement of copyrights, trademark rights, trade secret rights or other
proprietary rights, or alleging unfair competition or violations of privacy
rights or failure to maintain confidentiality of user data.  Currently, our subsidiary LAUNCH Media, Inc.
(“LAUNCH”) is engaged in a lawsuit regarding copyright issues that commenced prior
to our acquisition of LAUNCH.  In
addition, third parties have made, and may continue to make, trademark
infringement and related claims against us over the display of search results
triggered by search terms that include trademark terms.  A court in France has held us liable for
displaying search results triggered by certain trademarked terms, and we are
appealing that decision.

As we expand our business
and develop new technologies, products and services, we may become increasingly
subject to intellectual property infringement claims.  In the event that there is a determination
that we have infringed third-party proprietary rights such as patents,
copyrights, trademark rights, trade secret rights or other third party rights
such as publicity and privacy rights, we could incur substantial monetary
liability, be required to enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements or
be prevented from using the rights, which could require us to change our
business practices in the future and limit our ability to compete effectively.  We may also incur substantial expenses in
defending against third-party infringement claims regardless of the merit
of such claims.  In addition, many of our
agreements with our customers or affiliates require us to indemnify them for
certain third-party intellectual property infringement claims, which
could increase our costs in defending such claims and our damages.  The occurrence of any of these results could
harm our brand and negatively impact our operating results.

We are subject to
United States and foreign government regulation of the Internet and Voice over
Internet Protocol services which could subject us to claims and remedies
including monetary liabilities and limitations on our business practices.

We are subject to regulations and laws directly
applicable to providers of Internet and Voice over Internet Protocol services
both domestically and internationally.  The
application of existing domestic and international laws and regulations to
Yahoo! relating to issues such as user privacy and data protection, defamation,
pricing, advertising, taxation, gambling, sweepstakes, promotions, financial
market regulation, consumer protection, content regulation, quality of
services, telecommunications and intellectual property ownership and
infringement in many instances is unclear or unsettled.  In addition, we will also be subject to any
new laws and regulations directly applicable to our domestic and international
activities.  Further, the application of
existing laws to Yahoo! or our subsidiaries regulating or requiring licenses
for certain businesses of our advertisers including, for example, distribution
of pharmaceuticals, alcohol, adult content, tobacco or firearms, as well as
insurance and securities brokerage and legal services, can be unclear.  Internationally, we may also be subject to
domestic laws regulating our activities in foreign countries and to foreign
laws and regulations that are inconsistent from country to country.  We may incur substantial liabilities for
expenses necessary to comply with these laws and regulations or penalties for
any 


 21 





failure to comply. 
Compliance with these laws and regulations may also cause us to change
or limit our business practices in a manner adverse to our business.

A number of federal laws,
including those referenced below, impact our business.  The Digital Millennium Copyright Act (“DMCA”)
is intended, in part, to limit the liability of eligible online service
providers for listing or linking to third-party websites that include
materials that infringe copyrights or other rights of others.  Portions of the Communications Decency Act (“CDA”)
are intended to provide statutory protections to online service providers who
distribute third party content.  Yahoo!
relies on the protections provided by both the DMCA and CDA in conducting its
business.  Any changes in these laws or
judicial interpretations narrowing their protections will subject us to greater
risk of liability and may increase our costs of compliance with these
regulations or limit our ability to operate certain lines of business.  The Children’s Online Protection Act and the
Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act are intended to restrict the
distribution of certain materials deemed harmful to children and impose
additional restrictions on the ability of online services to collect user
information from minors.  In addition,
the Protection of Children From Sexual Predators Act of 1998 requires online
service providers to report evidence of violations of federal child pornography
laws under certain circumstances.  The
costs of compliance with these regulations may increase in the future as a
result of changes in the regulations or the interpretation of them.  Further, any failures on our part to comply
with these regulations may subject us to significant liabilities.

Changes in
regulations or user concerns regarding privacy and protection of user data
could adversely affect our business.

Federal, state and international laws and regulations
may govern the collection, use, sharing and security of data that we receive
from our users and partners.  In
addition, we have and post on our website our own privacy policies and
practices concerning the collection, use and disclosure of user data.  Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to
comply with our posted privacy policies or with any data-related consent
orders, Federal Trade Commission requirements or other federal, state or
international privacy-related laws and regulations could result in proceedings
or actions against us by governmental entities or others, which could
potentially have an adverse effect on our business.

Further, failure or perceived failure to comply with
our policies or applicable requirements related to the collection, use, sharing
or security of personal information or other privacy-related matters could
result in a loss of user confidence in us and ultimately in a loss of users,
partners or advertisers, which could adversely affect our business.

There are a large number
of legislative proposals pending before the United States Congress, various
state legislative bodies and foreign governments concerning privacy issues
related to our business.  It is not
possible to predict whether or when such legislation may be adopted.  Certain proposals, if adopted, could impose
requirements that may result in a decrease in our user registrations and
revenues.  In addition, the
interpretation and application of user data protection laws are in a state of
flux.  These laws may be interpreted and
applied inconsistently from country to country and inconsistently with our
current data protection policies and practices. 
Complying with these varying international requirements could cause us
to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a
manner adverse to our business.

Acquisitions and
strategic investments could result in adverse impacts on our operations and in
unanticipated liabilities.

We have acquired,
and made strategic investments in, a number of companies (including through
joint ventures) in the past and expect to make additional acquisitions and
strategic investments in the future.  Such
transactions may result in dilutive issuances of equity securities, use of our
cash resources, incurrence 


 22 





of debt and amortization
of expenses related to intangible assets. 
Our acquisitions and strategic investments to date were accompanied by a
number of risks, including:

·       the
difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of our acquired
companies into our operations;

·       the
potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management;

·       additional
operating losses and expenses of the businesses we acquired or in which we
invested;

·       the
difficulty of integrating acquired technology and rights into our services and
unanticipated expenses related to such integration;

·       the
failure to successfully further develop acquired technology resulting in the
impairment of amounts currently capitalized as intangible assets;

·       the
potential for patent and trademark infringement claims against the acquired
company;

·       the
impairment of relationships with customers and partners of the companies we
acquired or in which we invested or our customers and partners as a result of
the integration of acquired operations;

·       the
impairment of relationships with employees of the acquired companies or our
employees as a result of integration of new management personnel;

·       the
difficulty of integrating the acquired company’s accounting, management
information, human resources and other administrative systems;

·       our
lack of, or limitations on, our control over the operations of our joint
venture companies;

·       in
the case of foreign acquisitions, uncertainty regarding foreign laws and
regulations and difficulty integrating operations and systems as a result of
cultural, systems and operational differences; and

·       the
impact of known potential liabilities or unknown liabilities associated with
the companies we acquired or in which we invested.

We are likely to
experience similar risks in connection with our future acquisitions and
strategic investments.  Our failure to be
successful in addressing these risks or other problems encountered in
connection with our past or future acquisitions and strategic investments could
cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions or
investments, incur unanticipated liabilities and harm our business generally.

Our failure to manage growth and diversification of
our business could harm us.

We are continuing to grow
and diversify our business both in the United States and internationally.  As a result, we must expand and adapt our
operational infrastructure and increase the number of our personnel in certain
areas.  Our business relies on our data
systems, billing systems for our fee based and other services, and other
operational and financial reporting and control systems.  All of these systems have become increasingly
complex in the recent past due to the growing diversification and complexity of
our business and to acquisitions of new businesses with different systems.  To effectively manage this growth, we will
need to continue to upgrade and improve our data systems, billing systems, and
other operational and financial systems, procedures and controls.  In particular, as our premium and other
services for which we bill users grow, any failure of our billing systems to
accommodate the increasing number of transactions and accurately bill users
could adversely affect our business and ability to collect revenue.  These upgrades and improvements will require
a dedication of resources and in some cases are likely to be complex.  If we 


 23 





are unable to adapt our
systems in a timely manner to accommodate our growth, our business may be
adversely affected.

Additionally, we have
experienced recent growth in personnel numbers and expect to continue to hire
additional personnel in selected areas.  This
growth requires significant time and resource commitments from our senior
management.  Further, as a result of
recent acquisitions and international expansion, more than one-half of our
employees are based outside of our Sunnyvale, California headquarters.  If we are unable to effectively manage a
large and geographically dispersed group of employees or to anticipate our
future growth and personnel needs, our business may be adversely affected.

We have dedicated
considerable resources to provide a variety of premium services, which may not
prove to be successful in generating significant revenue for us.

We offer fee-based
enhancements to many of our free services, including e-mail, personals,
finance, games, music and sports.  The
development cycles for these technologies are long and generally require
significant investment by us.  We have
previously discontinued certain non-profitable premium services.  We must however continue to provide new
services that are compelling to our users while continuing to develop an
effective method for generating revenues for such services.  General economic conditions may affect users’
willingness to pay for such services.  If
we cannot generate revenues from these services that are greater than the cost
of providing such services, our operating results could be harmed.

We expect our
operating expenses to continue to increase as we attempt to expand the Yahoo!
brand, fund product development, develop media properties and acquire other
businesses or technologies, which could harm our operating results.

We currently expect that
our operating expenses will continue to increase as we expand our operations in
areas of expected growth, continue to develop and extend the Yahoo! brand, fund
greater levels of product development, develop and commercialize additional
media properties and premium services, and acquire and integrate complementary
businesses and technologies.  If our expenses
increase at a greater pace than our revenues, our operating results could be
harmed.

If we are unable to
retain our existing senior management and key personnel and hire new highly
skilled personnel, we may not be able to execute our business plan.

We are substantially
dependent on the continued services of our senior management, including our two
founders, our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, chief operating
officer, chief technical officer, and our executive and senior vice presidents.  These individuals have acquired specialized
knowledge and skills with respect to Yahoo! and its operations.  The loss of any of these individuals could
harm our business.  Our business is also
dependent on our ability to retain, hire and motivate talented, highly skilled
personnel.  The competition for such
highly skilled personnel can be intense, particularly in the San Francisco Bay
Area, where our corporate headquarters is located.  Many of our management and key personnel have
reached or will soon reach the four-year anniversary of their Yahoo! hiring
date and, as a result, have become or will shortly become fully vested in their
initial stock option grants.  Although
employees receive additional grants, an employee may be more likely to leave
Yahoo! upon completion of the vesting period for the initial option grant,
which is generally the largest option grant an employee receives.  If we do not succeed in retaining and
motivating our existing key employees and in attracting new key personnel, we may
be unable to meet our business plan and as a result, our stock price may
decline.


 24










More individuals
are utilizing non-PC devices to access the Internet, and versions of our
service developed or optimized for these devices may not gain widespread
adoption by users, manufacturers or distributors of such devices.

The number of individuals who access the Internet
through devices other than a personal computer, such as personal digital
assistants, mobile telephones and television set-top devices, has increased
dramatically.  Our services were
originally designed for rich, graphical environments such as those available on
desktop and laptop computers.  The lower
resolution, functionality and memory associated with alternative devices
currently available may make the use of our services through such devices
difficult, and the versions of our service developed for these devices may not
be compelling to users, manufacturers or distributors of alternative devices.  As we have limited experience to date in
operating versions of our service developed or optimized for users of
alternative devices, and as new devices and new platforms are continually being
released, it is difficult to predict the problems we may encounter in doing so,
and we may need to devote significant resources to the creation, support and
maintenance of such versions.  If we are
unable to attract and retain a substantial number of alternative device users
to our online services, we may fail to capture a sufficient share of an
increasingly important portion of the market for online services and may fail
to attract both advertisers and premium service subscribers.

We plan to expand
operations in international markets in which we may have limited experience or
rely on business partners, and in which we are faced with relatively higher
costs.

We plan to expand Yahoo!
branded online properties and search offerings in international markets.  We have currently developed, through joint
ventures, strategic investments, subsidiaries and branch offices, localized
offerings in over 20 countries outside of the United States.  As we expand into new international markets,
we will have only limited experience in marketing and operating our products
and services in such markets.  In other
instances, including our strategic investment in Alibaba, we may rely on the
efforts and abilities of foreign business partners in such markets.  We have experienced and expect to continue to
experience higher costs as a percentage of revenues in connection with the
development and maintenance of our international online properties relative to
our domestic experience.  Certain
international markets may be slower than domestic markets in adopting the
Internet as an advertising and commerce medium and so our operations in
international markets may not develop at a rate that supports our level of
investment.

In international markets we compete with local
Internet service providers that may have competitive advantages.

In a number of
international markets, especially those in Asia, Europe and Latin America, we
face substantial competition from local Internet service providers and other
portals that offer search, communications and other commercial services.  Many of these companies have a dominant
market share in their territories and are owned by local telecommunications
providers which give them a competitive advantage.  Local providers of competing online services
may also have a substantial advantage over us in attracting users in their
country due to more established branding in that country, greater knowledge
with respect to the tastes and preferences of users residing in that country
and/or their focus on a single market.  Further,
the local providers may have greater regulatory and operational flexibility
than Yahoo! due to the fact that we are subject to both United States and
foreign regulatory requirements.  We must
continue to improve our local offerings, become more knowledgeable about our
local users and their preferences, deepen our relationships with our local
users as well as increase our branding and other marketing activities in order
to remain competitive and strengthen our international market position.


 25 





Our international
operations are subject to increased risks which could harm our business,
operating results and financial condition.

In addition to
uncertainty about our ability to continue to generate revenues from our foreign
operations and expand our international market position, there are certain
risks inherent in doing business internationally, including:

·       trade
barriers and changes in trade regulations;

·       difficulties
in developing, staffing and simultaneously managing a large number of varying
foreign operations as a result of distance, language and cultural differences;

·       stringent
local labor laws and regulations;

·       longer
payment cycles;

·       currency
exchange rate fluctuations;

·       political
or social unrest or economic instability;

·       import
or export restrictions;

·       seasonal
volatility in business activity;

·       risks
related to government regulation or required compliance with local laws in
certain jurisdictions, including those more fully described above; and

·       potentially
adverse tax consequences.

One or more of these
factors could harm our future international operations and consequently, could
harm our brand, business, operating results and financial condition.

We may be subject to legal liability for online
services.

We host a wide variety of services that enable
individuals and businesses to exchange information, generate content, advertise
products and services, conduct business and engage in various online activities
on an international basis.  The law
relating to the liability of providers of these online services for activities
of their users is currently unsettled both within the United States and
internationally.  Claims have been
threatened and have been brought against us for defamation, negligence,
copyright or trademark infringement, unlawful activity, tort, including
personal injury, fraud, or other theories based on the nature and content of
information that we provide links to or that may be posted online or generated
by our users or with respect to auctioned materials.  In addition, Yahoo! was the subject of a
claim brought by certain entities in a French court regarding, among other
things, the availability of certain content within our services which was
alleged to violate French law.  We may be
subject to similar actions in domestic or other international jurisdictions in
the future.  Our defense of any such
actions could be costly and involve significant time and attention of our
management and other resources.

We also periodically enter into arrangements to offer
third-party products, services or content under the Yahoo! brand or via
distribution on the Yahoo! Properties, including stock quotes and trading
information.  We may be subject to claims
concerning these products, services or content by virtue of our involvement in
marketing, branding, broadcasting or providing access to them, even if we do
not ourselves host, operate, provide, or provide access to these products,
services or content.  While our agreements
with respect to these products, services and content, often provide that we
will be indemnified against such liabilities, the ability to receive such
indemnification depends on the financial resources of the other party to the
agreement and any amounts received may not be adequate to cover our
liabilities.

It is also possible that,
if any information provided directly by us contains errors or is otherwise
negligently provided to users, third parties could make claims against us.  For example, we offer web-based e-mail 


 26 





services, which expose us
to potential risks, such as liabilities or claims resulting from unsolicited
e-mail, lost or misdirected messages, illegal or fraudulent use of e-mail, or
interruptions or delays in e-mail service. 
Investigating and defending any of these types of claims is expensive,
even to the extent that the claims are without merit or do not ultimately
result in liability.

We may have
difficulty scaling and adapting our existing technology architecture to
accommodate increased traffic and technology advances or requirements of our
users and advertisers.

As one of the most highly trafficked websites on the
Internet, Yahoo! delivers a growing number of products, services and page views
to an increasing number of users around the world.  In addition, the products and services
offered by Yahoo! have expanded and changed significantly and are expected to
continue to expand and change rapidly in the future to accommodate new
technologies and new means of content delivery, such as rich media audio and
video.  Our future success will depend on
our ability to adapt to rapidly changing technologies, to adapt our products
and services to evolving industry standards and to improve the performance and
reliability of our products and services. 
Rapid increases in the levels or types of use of our online properties
and services could result in delays or interruptions in our service.

Widespread adoption of new
Internet, networking or telecommunications technologies or other technological
changes could require substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our services
or infrastructure.  The technology
architectures utilized for our services are highly complex and may not provide
satisfactory support in the future, as usage increases and products and
services expand, change and become more complex.  In the future, we may make significant
changes to our architectures, including moving to completely new architectures
and systems.  Such changes may be
technologically challenging to develop and implement, may cause us to incur
substantial costs or data loss, and may cause users and advertisers to
experience delays or interruptions in our service.  These changes, delays or interruptions in our
service may cause users and advertisers to become dissatisfied with our service
and move to competing providers of online services.  Further, to the extent that demands for our
services increase, we will need to expand our infrastructure, including the
capacity of our hardware servers and the sophistication of our software.  This expansion is likely to be expensive and
complex and require additional technical expertise.  As we acquire users who rely upon us for a
wide variety of services, it becomes more technologically complex and costly to
retrieve, store and integrate data that will enable us to track each user’s
preferences.  Any difficulties
experienced in adapting our architectures and infrastructure to accommodate
increased traffic, to store user data and track user preferences, together with
the associated costs and potential loss of traffic, could harm our operating
results, cash flows from operations and financial condition.

Our business depends on the continued growth and
maintenance of the Internet infrastructure.

The success and the
availability of our Internet-based products and services depends in part upon
the continued growth and maintenance of the Internet infrastructure itself,
including its protocols, architecture, network backbone, data capacity and
security.  Spam, viruses, worms, spyware,
denial of service attacks and other acts of malice may affect not only the
Internet’s speed, reliability and availability but also its continued
desirability as a vehicle for commerce, information and user engagement.  If the Internet proves unable to meet the new
threats and increased demands placed upon it, our business plans, user and
advertiser relationships, site traffic and revenues could be adversely
affected.

New technologies
could block our advertisements or our search marketing listings, which would harm
our operating results.

Technologies have been
developed and are likely to continue to be developed that can block the display
of our advertisements or our search marketing listings.  Most of our revenues are derived from fees
paid to us by advertisers in connection with the display of advertisements or
our search marketing listings on web 


 27 





pages.  As a result, advertisement-blocking
technology could reduce the number of advertisements and search results that we
are able to deliver and, in turn, our advertising revenues and operating
results.

We rely on third
party providers for our principal Internet connections and technologies,
databases and services critical to our properties and services, and any errors,
failures or disruption in the services provided by these third parties could
significantly harm our business and operating results.

We rely on private third-party
providers for our principal Internet connections, co-location of a significant
portion of our data servers and network access. 
Any disruption, from natural disasters, technology malfunctions,
sabotage or other factors, in the Internet or network access or co-location
services provided by these third-party providers or any failure of these
third-party providers to handle current or higher volumes of use could
significantly harm our business, operating results and financial condition.  We have little control over these third-party
providers, which increases our vulnerability to disruptions or problems with
their services.  Any financial
difficulties experienced by our providers may have negative effects on our
business, the nature and extent of which we cannot predict.  We license technology and related databases
from third parties for certain elements of our properties, including, among
others, technology underlying the delivery of news, stock quotes and current
financial information, chat services, street mapping and telephone listings,
streaming capabilities and similar services. 
We have experienced and expect to continue to experience interruptions
and delays in service and availability for such elements.  We also rely on a third-party provider
for key components of our e-mail service. 
Furthermore, we depend on hardware and software suppliers for prompt
delivery, installation and service of servers and other equipment to deliver
our services.  Any errors, failures,
interruptions or delays experienced in connection with these third-party
technologies and information services could negatively impact our relationship
with users and adversely affect our brand, our business and operating results.

We rely on
distribution agreements and relationships with various third parties, and any
failure to obtain or maintain such distribution relationships on reasonable
terms could impair our ability to fully execute our business plan.

In addition to our
relationships with Internet access providers, to increase traffic for our
offerings and make them more available and attractive to advertisers and users,
we have certain distribution agreements and informal relationships with
operators of online networks and leading websites, software companies,
electronics companies, and computer manufacturers.  Depending on the distributor and the
agreement, these distribution arrangements may not be exclusive and may only
have a short term.  Some of our
distributors, particularly distributors who are also competitors or potential
competitors, may not renew their distribution agreements with us.  In addition, as new methods for accessing the
Internet become available, including through alternative devices, we may need
to enter into amended distributions agreements with existing distributors to
cover the new devices and agreements with additional distributors.  In the future, existing and potential
distributors may not offer distribution of our properties and services to us on
reasonable terms, or at all.  If we fail
to obtain distribution or to obtain distribution on terms that are reasonable,
we may not be able to fully execute our business plan.

We rely on third
party providers of streaming media products to stream audio and video content
to our users, and any change in the licensing terms, costs, availability or
user acceptance of these products could adversely affect our business.

We rely on leading
providers of streaming media products to license the software necessary to
stream audio and video content to our users. 
There can be no assurance that these providers will continue to license
these products to us on reasonable terms, or at all.  Our users are currently able to
electronically download copies of the software to play streaming media free of
charge, but providers of streaming media products may begin charging users for
copies of their player software or otherwise change their business 


 28 





model in a manner that
slows the widespread acceptance of these products.  In order for our rich media services to be
successful, there must be a large base of users of these streaming media
products.  We have limited or no control
over the availability or acceptance of streaming media software, and to the
extent that any of these circumstances occur, our business may be adversely
affected.

If we fail to
detect click spam, we could lose the confidence of our advertisers, thereby
causing a loss of advertisers and revenue.

We are exposed to the risk
of clicks on our advertisements by persons seeking to increase the fees paid by
our advertisers.  Click spam may occur
when a click is generated on one of our advertiser’s listings displayed on a
website in order to generate a payment rather than to view the underlying
content.  This type of activity could
damage our brand.  If click spam is not
detected, the affected advertisers may perceive a reduced return on their
investment in our advertising programs because those clicks will not lead to
potential revenue for the advertisers.  This
could lead the advertisers to become dissatisfied with our advertising
programs, which could lead to loss of advertisers and revenue.  If this activity occurs and we are unable to
stop it, we may have to provide refunds of revenue that our advertisers have
paid to us and that was later attributed to click spam, in order to prevent
damage to our brand.

Interruptions,
delays or failures in the provision of our services could damage our brand and
harm our operating results.

Our operations are
susceptible to outages due to fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications
failures, terrorist attacks and similar events. 
In addition, a significant portion of our network infrastructure is
located in Northern California, an area subject to earthquakes.  Despite our implementation of network
security measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, worms,
physical and electronic break-ins, sabotage and similar disruptions from
unauthorized tampering with our computer systems.  For example, we are vulnerable to coordinated
attempts to overload our systems with data, resulting in denial or reduction of
service to some or all of our users for a period of time.  We have experienced a coordinated denial of
service attack in the past, and may experience such attempts in the future.  We do not have multiple site capacity for all
of our services and some of our systems are not fully redundant in the event of
any such occurrence.  In an effort to
reduce the likelihood of a geographical or other disaster impacting our
business, we have distributed and intend to continue distributing our servers
among additional data centers located around the world.  Failure to execute these changes properly or
in a timely manner could result in delays or interruptions to our service,
which could result in a loss of users and damage to our brand, and harm our
operating results.  We may not carry
sufficient business interruption insurance to compensate us for losses that may
occur as a result of any events, which cause interruptions in our service.

We may be required
to record a significant charge to earnings if our goodwill or amortizable
intangible assets become impaired.

We are required under
generally accepted accounting principles to review our amortizable intangible
assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the
carrying value may not be recoverable.  Goodwill
is required to be tested for impairment at least annually.  Factors that may be considered a change in
circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our amortizable intangible
assets may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price and market
capitalization, and slower growth rates in our industry.  We may be required to record a significant
charge to earnings in our consolidated financial statements during the period
in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is
determined.  This may adversely impact
our results of operations.


 29 





Our stock price has
been volatile historically and may continue to be volatile regardless of our
operating performance.

The trading price of our common stock has been and may
continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. 
During 2005, the closing sale prices of our common stock on the Nasdaq
ranged from $30.87 to $42.50 per share and the closing sale price on February 28,
2006 was $32.06 per share.  Our
stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such
as quarterly variations in operating results; announcements of technological
innovations or new services and media properties by us or our competitors;
changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; the
operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may
deem comparable to us; the operating performance of companies in which we have
an equity investment, including Yahoo! Japan and Alibaba; the stock price of
companies in which we have an equity investment, including Yahoo! Japan; and
news reports relating to trends in our markets or general economic conditions.

In addition, the stock
market in general, and the market prices for Internet-related companies
in particular, have experienced volatility that often has been unrelated to the
operating performance of such companies.  These broad market and industry fluctuations
may adversely affect the price of our stock, regardless of our operating
performance.  Additionally, volatility or
a lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our
ability to retain key employees, all of whom have been granted stock options or
other equity-based awards.

Anti-takeover provisions could make it more difficult
for a third party to acquire us.

We have adopted a stockholder rights plan and
initially declared a dividend distribution of one right for each outstanding
share of common stock to stockholders of record as of March 20, 2001.  As a result of our two-for-one stock split
effective May 11, 2004, each share of common stock is now associated with
one-half of one right.  Each right
entitles the holder to purchase one unit consisting of one one-thousandth of a
share of our Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock for $250 per
unit.  Under certain circumstances, if a
person or group acquires 15 percent or more of our outstanding common
stock, holders of the rights (other than the person or group triggering their
exercise) will be able to purchase, in exchange for the $250 exercise price,
shares of our common stock or of any company into which we are merged having a
value of $500.  The rights expire on March 1,
2011, unless extended by our Board of Directors.  Because the rights may substantially dilute
the stock ownership of a person or group attempting to take us over without the
approval of our Board of Directors, our rights plan could make it more
difficult for a third party to acquire us (or a significant percentage of our
outstanding capital stock) without first negotiating with our Board of
Directors regarding that acquisition.

In addition, our Board of Directors has the authority
to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock (of which 2,000,000 shares
have been designated as Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock) and
to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions,
including voting rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by
the stockholders.

The rights of the holders
of our common stock may be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the
rights of the holders of any Preferred Stock that may be issued in the future.  The issuance of Preferred Stock may have the
effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change of control of Yahoo!
without further action by the stockholders and may adversely affect the voting
and other rights of the holders of our common stock.  Further, certain provisions of our charter
documents, including provisions eliminating the ability of stockholders to take
action by written consent and limiting the ability of stockholders to raise
matters at a meeting of stockholders without giving advance notice, may have
the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or management of
Yahoo!, which could have an adverse effect on the market price of our stock.  In addition, our charter documents do not
permit cumulative voting, which may make it more difficult for a third party to
gain control of our Board of Directors.  Further,
we are subject 


 30 





to the anti-takeover
provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which
will prohibit us from engaging in a “business combination” with an “interested
stockholder” for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in
which the person became an interested stockholder, even if such combination is
favored by a majority of stockholders, unless the business combination is approved
in a prescribed manner.  The application
of Section 203 also could have the effect of delaying or preventing a
change of control or management.

Item 1B