 "Risk Factors" on page 8 for a discussion of risks relating to federal, state, local and international regulation of our business.7EmployeesAs of year end 2011, the Company and its Concepts employed approximately 466,000 persons, approximately 87 percent of whom were part-time.    The Company believes that it provides working conditions and compensation that compare favorably with those of its principal competitors.  The majority of employees are paid on an hourly basis.  Some employees are subject to labor council relationships that vary due to the diverse cultures in which the Company operates.  The Company and its Concepts consider their employee relations to be good.(d)Financial Information about Geographic AreasFinancial information about our significant geographic areas (China Division, International Division and U.S.) is incorporated herein by reference from Selected Financial Data in Part II, Item 6, pages 19 and 20; MD&A in Part II, Item 7, pages 21 through 47; and in the related Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8, pages 48 through 93.(e)Available InformationThe Company makes available through the Investor Relations section of its internet website at www.yum.com its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such material with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").  Our Corporate Governance Principles and our Code of Conduct are also located within this section of the website.  The reference to the Company’s website address does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on the website and should not be considered part of this document.  These documents, as well as our SEC filings, are available in print to any shareholder who requests a copy from our Investor Relations Department.Item 1A.Risk Factors.You should carefully review the risks described below as they identify important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements and historical trends.Food safety and food-borne illness concerns may have an adverse effect on our business. Food-borne illnesses, such as E. coli, hepatitis A, trichinosis or salmonella, and food safety issues have occurred in the past, and could occur in the future.  Any report or publicity linking us or one of our Concept restaurants, including restaurants operated by our franchisees, to instances of food-borne illness or other food safety issues, including food tampering or contamination, could adversely affect our Concepts’ brands and reputations as well as our revenues and profits.  If a customer of our Concepts or franchisees becomes ill from food-borne illnesses, we and our franchisees may temporarily close some restaurants, which would decrease our revenues.  In addition, instances of food-borne illness, food tampering or food contamination solely involving our suppliers or distributors or solely at restaurants of competitors could adversely affect our sales as a result of negative publicity about the foodservice industry generally.  Such instances of food-borne illness, food tampering and food contamination may not be within our control.  The occurrence of food-borne illnesses or food safety issues could also adversely affect the price and availability of affected ingredients, which could result in disruptions in our supply chain and/or lower margins for us and our franchisees.Our China operations subject us to risks that could negatively affect our business. A significant and growing portion of our restaurants are located in China.  As a consequence, our financial results are increasingly dependent on our results in China, and our business is increasingly exposed to risks there.  These risks include changes in economic conditions (including consumer spending, unemployment levels and wage and commodity inflation), income and non-income based tax rates and laws and consumer preferences, as well as changes in the regulatory environment and increased competition.  In addition, our results of operations in China and the value of our Chinese assets are affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect reported earnings.  There can be no assurance as to the future effect of any such changes on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.In addition, any significant or prolonged deterioration in U.S.-China relations could adversely affect our China business.  Certain risks and uncertainties of doing business in China are solely within the control of the Chinese government, and Chinese law regulates the scope of our foreign investments and business conducted within China.  There are also uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of laws and regulations and the enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights in China.  If we were unable to enforce our intellectual property or contract rights in China, our business would be adversely impacted.8Our other foreign operations subject us to risks that could negatively affect our business. A significant portion of our Concepts’ restaurants are operated in foreign countries and territories outside of the U.S. and China, and we intend to continue expansion of our international operations.  As a result, our business is increasingly exposed to risks inherent in foreign operations.  These risks, which can vary substantially by country, include political instability, corruption, social and ethnic unrest, changes in economic conditions (including consumer spending, unemployment levels and wage and commodity inflation), the regulatory environment, income and non-income based tax rates and laws and consumer preferences as well as changes in the laws and policies that govern foreign investment in countries where our restaurants are operated.In addition, our results of operations and the value of our foreign assets are affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect reported earnings.  More specifically, an increase in the value of the United States Dollar relative to other currencies, such as the Australian Dollar, the British Pound, the Canadian Dollar and the Euro, could have an adverse effect on our reported earnings.  There can be no assurance as to the future effect of any such changes on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.We may not attain our target development goals, and aggressive development could cannibalize existing sales. Our growth strategy depends in large part on our ability to increase our net restaurant count in markets outside the United States, especially China and other emerging markets.  The successful development of new units will depend in large part on our ability and the ability of our franchisees to open new restaurants and to operate these restaurants on a profitable basis.  We cannot guarantee that we, or our franchisees, will be able to achieve our expansion goals or that new restaurants will be operated profitably.  Further, there is no assurance that any new restaurant will produce operating results similar to those of our existing restaurants.  Other risks which could impact our ability to increase our net restaurant count include prevailing economic conditions and our, or our franchisees’, ability to obtain suitable restaurant locations, negotiate acceptable lease or purchase terms for the locations, obtain required permits and approvals in a timely manner, hire and train qualified personnel and meet construction schedules.Our franchisees also frequently depend upon financing from banks and other financial institutions in order to construct and open new restaurants.  If it becomes more difficult or expensive for our franchisees to obtain financing to develop new restaurants, our planned growth could slow and our future revenue and operating cash flows could be adversely impacted.In addition, the new restaurants could impact the sales of our existing restaurants nearby.  It is not our intention to open new restaurants that materially cannibalize the sales of our existing restaurants.  However, as with most growing retail and restaurant operations, there can be no assurance that sales cannibalization will not occur or become more significant in the future as we increase our presence in existing markets.Changes in commodity and other operating costs could adversely affect our results of operations. Any increase in certain commodity prices, such as food, supply and energy costs, could adversely affect our operating results.  Because our Concepts and their franchisees provide competitively priced food, our ability to pass along commodity price increases to our customers is limited.  Significant increases in gasoline prices could also result in a decrease of customer traffic at our restaurants or the imposition of fuel surcharges by our distributors, each of which could adversely affect our profit margins.  Our operating expenses also include employee wages and benefits and insurance costs (including workers’ compensation, general liability, property and health) which may increase over time.  Any such increase could adversely affect our profit margins.Shortages or interruptions in the availability and delivery of food and other supplies may increase costs or reduce revenues. The products sold by our Concepts and their franchisees are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers.  We are also dependent upon third parties to make frequent deliveries of food products and supplies that meet our specifications at competitive prices.  Shortages or interruptions in the supply of food items and other supplies to our restaurants could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of items we buy and the operations of our restaurants.  Such shortages or disruptions could be caused by inclement weather, natural disasters such as floods, drought and hurricanes, increased demand, problems in production or distribution, the inability of our vendors to obtain credit, political instability in the countries in which foreign suppliers and distributors are located, the financial instability of suppliers and distributors, suppliers' or distributors' failure to meet our standards, product quality issues, inflation, other factors relating to the suppliers and distributors and the countries in which they are located, food safety warnings or advisories or the prospect of such pronouncements or other conditions beyond our control.  A shortage or interruption in the availability of certain food products or supplies could increase costs and limit the availability of products critical to restaurant operations.  In addition, failure by a principal distributor for our Concepts and/or our franchisees to meet its service requirements could lead to a disruption of service or supply until a new distributor is engaged, and any disruption could have an adverse effect on our business.9Our operating results are closely tied to the success of our Concepts’ franchisees.A significant portion of our revenue consists of royalties from our franchisees.  Because a significant and growing portion of our restaurants are run by franchisees, the success of our business is increasingly dependent upon the operational and financial success of our franchisees.  While our franchise agreements set forth certain operational standards and guidelines, we have limited control over how our franchisees’ businesses are run, and any significant inability of our franchisees to operate successfully could adversely affect our operating results through decreased royalty payments.  For example, franchisees may not have access to the financial or management resources that they need to open or continue operating the restaurants contemplated by their franchise agreements with us.  If our franchisees incur too much debt or if economic or sales trends deteriorate such that they are unable to repay existing debt, it could result in financial distress, including insolvency or bankruptcy.  If a significant number of our franchisees become financially distressed, our operating results could be impacted through reduced or delayed royalty payments or increased rent obligations for leased properties on which we are contingently liable.Our results and financial condition could be affected by the success of our refranchising program. We are in the process of refranchising restaurants in the U.S., which could reduce the percentage of Company ownership of KFCs, Pizza Huts, and Taco Bells in the U.S. from approximately 13% at the end of 2011 to approximately 8%.  Our ability to execute this plan will depend on, among other things, whether we receive fair offers for these restaurants, whether we can find suitable buyers and how quickly we can consummate the sales.  In addition, financing for restaurant purchases can be expensive or difficult to obtain.  If buyers cannot obtain financing at attractive prices – or if they are unable to obtain financing at any price – our refranchising program could be delayed.Once executed, the success of the refranchising program will depend on, among other things, buyers effectively operating these restaurants, the impact of contingent liabilities incurred in connection with refranchising, and whether the resulting ownership mix of Company-operated and franchisee-operated restaurants allows us to meet our financial objectives.  In addition, refranchising activity could vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year and that volatility could impact our reported earnings.We could be party to litigation that could adversely affect us by increasing our expenses or subjecting us to significant monetary damages and other remedies.We are involved in a number of legal proceedings, which include consumer, employment, tort and other litigation.  We are currently a defendant in cases containing class action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state wage and hour and other laws.  Plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits often seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of the potential loss relating to such lawsuits may not be accurately estimated.  Regardless of whether any claims against us are valid, or whether we are ultimately held liable, such litigation may be expensive to defend and may divert resources away from our operations and negatively impact reported earnings.  With respect to insured claims, a judgment for monetary damages in excess of any insurance coverage could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.  Any adverse publicity resulting from these allegations may also adversely affect our reputation, which in turn could adversely affect our results.In addition, the restaurant industry has been subject to claims that relate to the nutritional content of food products, as well as claims that the menus and practices of restaurant chains have led to the obesity of some customers.  We may also be subject to this type of claim in the future and, even if we are not, publicity about these matters (particularly directed at the quick service and fast-casual segments of the industry) may harm our reputation and adversely affect our results.Health concerns arising from outbreaks of viruses or other diseases may have an adverse effect on our business.Asian and European countries have experienced outbreaks of Avian Flu, and some commentators have hypothesized that further outbreaks could occur and reach pandemic levels.  Future outbreaks could adversely affect the price and availability of poultry and cause customers to eat less chicken.  Widespread outbreaks could also affect our ability to attract and retain employees.Furthermore, other viruses such as H1N1 or “swine flu” may be transmitted through human contact, and the risk of contracting viruses could cause employees or guests to avoid gathering in public places, which could adversely affect restaurant guest traffic or the ability to adequately staff restaurants.  We could also be adversely affected if jurisdictions in which we have restaurants impose mandatory closures, seek voluntary closures or impose restrictions on operations of restaurants.  Even if such measures are not implemented and a virus or other disease does not spread significantly, the perceived risk of infection or significant health risk may affect our business.10Our success depends substantially on the value and perception of our brands.Our success is dependent in large part upon our ability to maintain and enhance the value of our brands and our customers’ connection to our brands.  Brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions on a variety of subjective qualities, and even isolated business incidents can erode brand value and consumer trust, particularly if the incidents receive considerable publicity or result in litigation.  For example, our brands could be damaged by claims or perceptions about the quality of our products regardless of whether such claims or perceptions are accurate.  Consumer demand for our products and our brand value could diminish significantly if any such incidents or other matters erode consumer confidence in us or our products, which would likely result in lower sales and, ultimately, profits.Our business may be adversely impacted by general economic conditions. Our results of operations are dependent upon discretionary spending by consumers, which may be affected by general economic conditions globally or in one or more of the markets we serve.  Some of the factors that impact discretionary consumer spending include unemployment, disposable income and consumer confidence.  These and other macroeconomic factors could have an adverse effect on our sales mix, profitability or development plans, which could harm our financial condition and operating results.The impact of potentially limited credit availability on third-party vendors such as our suppliers cannot be predicted.  The inability of our suppliers to access financing, or the insolvency of suppliers, could lead to disruptions in our supply chain which could adversely impact our sales, cost of sales and financial condition.Changes in governmental regulations may adversely affect our business operations. Our Concepts and their franchisees are subject to numerous laws and regulations around the world.  Our restaurants are subject to state and local licensing and regulation by health, sanitation, food, workplace safety, fire and other agencies.  In addition, we face risks arising from compliance with and enforcement of increasingly complex federal and state immigration laws and regulations in the U.S.We are also subject to the Americans with Disabilities Act in the U.S. and similar state laws that give civil rights protections to individuals with disabilities in the context of employment, public accommodations and other areas.  The expenses associated with any facilities modifications required by these laws could be material.  Our operations in the U.S. are also subject to the U.S. Fair Labor Standards Act, which governs such matters as minimum wages, overtime and other working conditions, family leave mandates and a variety of similar state laws that govern these and other employment law matters.  The compliance costs associated with these laws and evolving regulations could be substantial, and any failure or alleged failure to comply with these laws could lead to litigation, which could increase our expenses and adversely affect our financial condition.We also face risks from new or changing laws and regulations relating to nutritional content, nutritional labeling, product safety and menu labeling.  Compliance with these laws and regulations can be costly and can increase our exposure to litigation or governmental investigations or proceedings.  New or changing laws and regulations relating to union organizing rights and activities may impact our operations at the restaurant level and increase our cost of labor.  In addition, we are subject to laws relating to information security, privacy, cashless payments and consumer credit, protection and fraud, and any failure or perceived failure to comply with those laws could harm our reputation or lead to litigation, which could adversely affect our financial condition.We are also subject to increasing environmental regulations, which could result in increased taxation or future restrictions on or increases in costs associated with food and other restaurant supplies, transportation and utilities, any of which could decrease our operating profits and/or necessitate future investments in our restaurant facilities and equipment to achieve compliance.The impact of current laws and regulations, the effect of future changes in laws or regulations that impose additional requirements and the consequences of litigation relating to current or future laws and regulations, or our inability to respond effectively to significant regulatory or public policy issues, could increase our compliance and other costs of doing business and therefore have an adverse effect on our results of operations.  Failure to comply with the laws and regulatory requirements of federal, state and local authorities could result in, among other things, revocation of required licenses, administrative enforcement actions, fines and civil and criminal liability.  Compliance with these laws and regulations could be costly and could increase our exposure to litigation or governmental investigations or proceedings.11Tax matters, including changes in tax rates, disagreements with taxing authorities and imposition of new taxes  could impact the Company's results of operations and financial condition. A significant percentage of our profits are earned outside the U.S. and taxed at lower rates than the U.S. statutory rates.  Historically, the cash we generate outside the U.S. has principally been used to fund our international development.  However, if the cash generated by our U.S. business is not sufficient to meet the Company's need for cash in the U.S., we may need to repatriate a greater portion of our international earnings to the U.S. in the future. Such international earnings would be subject to U.S. tax at the point in time we did not believe they were permanently invested outside the U.S.  This could cause our worldwide effective tax rate to increase materially. We are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property, withholding and franchise taxes in both the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions.  We are also subject to regular reviews, examinations and audits by the Internal Revenue Service and other taxing authorities with respect to such income and non-income based taxes inside and outside of the U.S.  Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, if the IRS or other taxing authority disagrees with the positions we have taken, we could face additional tax liability, including interest and penalties.  There can be no assurance that payment of such additional amounts upon final adjudication of any disputes will not have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position.We are directly and indirectly affected by new tax legislation and regulation and the interpretation of tax laws and regulations worldwide.  Such changes could increase our taxes and have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.Failure to protect the integrity and security of individually identifiable data of our customers and employees could expose us to litigation and damage our reputation. We receive and maintain certain personal information about our customers and employees.  The use of this information by us is regulated by applicable law, as well as by certain third-party contracts.  If our security and information systems are compromised or our business associates fail to comply with these laws and regulations and this information is obtained by unauthorized persons or used inappropriately, it could adversely affect our reputation, as well as our restaurant operations and results of operations and financial condition.  Additionally, we could be subject to litigation or the imposition of penalties.  As privacy and information security laws and regulations change, we may incur additional costs to ensure we remain in compliance. The retail food industry in which we operate is highly competitive. The retail food industry in which we operate is highly competitive with respect to price and quality of food products, new product development, price, advertising levels and promotional initiatives, customer service, reputation, restaurant location, and attractiveness and maintenance of properties.  If consumer or dietary preferences change, or our restaurants are unable to compete successfully with other retail food outlets in new and existing markets, our business could be adversely affected.  We also face growing competition as a result of convergence in grocery, deli and restaurant services, including the offering by the grocery industry of convenient meals, including pizzas and entrees with side dishes.  In addition, in the retail food industry, labor is a primary operating cost component.  Competition for qualified employees could also require us to pay higher wages to attract a sufficient number of employees, which could adversely impact our profit margins.Item 1B