Item 1A of this Form 10-K and (ii) the factors described in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K.  You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof.  In making these statements, we are not undertaking to address or update any risk factor set forth herein in future filings or communications regarding our business results.




  



2







  







PART I








Item 1.


Business.







YUM! Brands, Inc. (referred to herein as “YUM”, the “Registrant” or the “Company”), was incorporated under the laws of the state of North Carolina in 1997.  The principal executive offices of YUM are located at 1441 Gardiner Lane, Louisville, Kentucky  40213, and the telephone number at that location is (502) 874-8300.




YUM, together with its subsidiaries, is referred to in this Form 10-K annual report (“Form 10-K”) as the Company.  The terms “we,” “us” and “our” are also used in the Form 10-K to refer to the Company.  Throughout this Form 10-K, the terms “restaurants,” “stores” and “units” are used interchangeably.




This Form 10-K should be read in conjunction with the Forward-Looking Statements on page 2 and the Risk Factors set forth in Item 1A.








(a)


General Development of Business







In January 1997, PepsiCo announced its decision to spin-off its restaurant businesses to shareholders as an independent public company (the “Spin-off”).  Effective October 6, 1997, PepsiCo disposed of its restaurant businesses by distributing all of the outstanding shares of Common Stock of YUM to its shareholders.  On May 16, 2002, following receipt of shareholder approval, the Company changed its name from TRICON Global Restaurants, Inc. to YUM! Brands, Inc.








(b)


Financial Information about Operating Segments







YUM consists of six operating segments:  KFC-U.S., Pizza Hut-U.S., Taco Bell-U.S., Long John Silver’s (“LJS”)-U.S. and A&W All American Food Restaurants (“A&W”)-U.S., YUM Restaurants International (“YRI” or “International Division”) and YUM Restaurants China (“China Division”).  For financial reporting purposes, management considers the four U.S. operating segments to be similar and, therefore, has aggregated them into a single reportable operating segment (“U.S.”).  At the beginning of 2010 we began reporting information for our Thailand and KFC Taiwan businesses within our International Division as a result of changes to our management reporting structure.  These businesses now report to the President of YRI, 
whereas previously they reported to the President of the China Division.  While this reporting change did not impact our consolidated results, segment information for previous years has been restated to be consistent with the current year presentation throughout the Form 10-K.  The China Division includes only mainland China (“China”) and the International Division includes the remainder of our international operations.




Operating segment information for the years ended December 25, 2010, December 26, 2009 and December 27, 2008 for the Company is included in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) in Part II, Item 7, pages 25 through 59 and in the related Consolidated Financial Statements and footnotes in Part II, Item 8, pages 61 through 124.








(c)


Narrative Description of Business







General




YUM is the world’s largest quick service restaurant (“QSR”) company based on number of system units, with more than 37,000 units in more than 110 countries and territories.  Through the five concepts of KFC, Pizza Hut, Taco Bell, LJS and A&W (the “Concepts”), the Company develops, operates, franchises and licenses a worldwide system of restaurants which prepare, package and sell a menu of competitively priced food items.  Units are operated by a Concept or by independent franchisees or licensees under the terms of franchise or license agreements.  Franchisees can range in size from individuals owning just one unit to large publicly traded companies.  In addition, the Company owns non-controlling interests in entities in China who operate similar to franchisees of
 KFC and a non-controlling interest in Little Sheep, a Hot Pot concept headquartered in Hong Kong.




  



3







  




At year end 2010, we had approximately 20,000 system restaurants in the U.S. and recorded revenues of $4.1 billion and Operating Profit of $668 million during 2010.  The International Division, based in Dallas, Texas, comprises approximately 14,000 system restaurants, primarily KFCs and Pizza Huts, operating in over 110 countries outside the U.S.  In 2010 YRI recorded revenues of $3.1 billion and Operating Profit of $589 million.  The China Division, based in Shanghai, China, comprises approximately 4,000 system restaurants in China, primarily KFCs and Pizza Huts.  In 2010, the China Division recorded revenues of $4.1 billion and Operating Profit of $755 million.




Restaurant Concepts




Most restaurants in each Concept offer consumers the ability to dine in and/or carry out food.  In addition, Taco Bell, KFC, LJS and A&W offer a drive-thru option in many stores.  Pizza Hut offers a drive-thru option on a much more limited basis.  Pizza Hut and, on a much more limited basis, KFC offer delivery service.




Each Concept has proprietary menu items and emphasizes the preparation of food with high quality ingredients, as well as unique recipes and special seasonings to provide appealing, tasty and attractive food at competitive prices.




The franchise program of the Company is designed to assure consistency and quality, and the Company is selective in granting franchises.  Under standard franchise agreements, franchisees supply capital – initially by paying a franchise fee to YUM, purchasing or leasing the land, building and equipment and purchasing signs, seating, inventories and supplies and, over the longer term, by reinvesting in the business.  Franchisees then contribute to the Company’s revenues through the payment of royalties based on a percentage of sales.




The Company believes that it is important to maintain strong and open relationships with its franchisees and their representatives.  To this end, the Company invests a significant amount of time working with the franchisee community and their representative organizations on all aspects of the business, including products, equipment, operational improvements and standards and management techniques.




The Company and its franchisees also operate multibrand units, primarily in the U.S., where two or more of the Concepts are operated in a single unit.




Following is a brief description of each concept:




KFC








·


KFC was founded in Corbin, Kentucky by Colonel Harland D. Sanders, an early developer of the quick service food business and a pioneer of the restaurant franchise concept.  The Colonel perfected his secret blend of 11 herbs and spices for Kentucky Fried Chicken in 1939 and signed up his first franchisee in 1952.


  
  


·


As of year end 2010, KFC was the leader in the U.S. chicken QSR segment among companies featuring chicken-on-the-bone as their primary product offering, with a 40 percent market share (Source: The NPD Group, Inc.; NPD Foodworld; CREST) in that segment, which is nearly three times that of its closest national competitor.


  
  


·


KFC operates in 110 countries and territories throughout the world.  As of year end 2010, KFC had 5,055 units in the U.S., and 11,798 units outside the U.S., including 3,244 units in China.  Approximately 15 percent of the U.S. units and 29 percent of the non-U.S. units are Concept-owned.










  



4







  











·


Traditional KFC restaurants in the U.S. offer fried and non-fried chicken-on-the-bone products, primarily marketed under the names Original Recipe, Extra Tasty Crispy and Kentucky Grilled Chicken.  Other principal entree items include chicken sandwiches (including the Snacker and the Twister), KFC Famous Bowls, Colonel’s Crispy Strips, Wings, Popcorn Chicken and seasonally, Chunky Chicken Pot Pies.  KFC restaurants in the U.S. also offer a variety of side items, such as biscuits, mashed potatoes and gravy, coleslaw, corn, and potato wedges, as well as desserts.  While many of these products are offered outside of the U.S., international menus are more focused on chicken sandwiches and Colonel’s Crispy Strips, and include side items that are suited to local preferences and tastes.  Res
taurant decor throughout the world is characterized by the image of the Colonel.







Pizza Hut








·


The first Pizza Hut restaurant was opened in 1958 in Wichita, Kansas, and within a year, the first franchise unit was opened.  Today, Pizza Hut is the largest restaurant chain in the world specializing in the sale of ready-to-eat pizza products.


  
  


·


As of year end 2010, Pizza Hut was the leader in the U.S. pizza QSR segment, with a 14 percent market share (Source: The NPD Group, Inc.; NPD Foodworld; CREST) in that segment.


  
  


·


Pizza Hut operates in 95 countries and territories throughout the world. As of year end 2010, Pizza Hut had 7,542 units in the U.S., and 5,890 units outside of the U.S.  Approximately 6 percent of the U.S. units and 22 percent of the non-U.S. units are Concept-owned.


  
  


·


Pizza Hut features a variety of pizzas, which may include Pan Pizza, Thin ‘n Crispy, Hand Tossed, Sicilian, Stuffed Crust, Twisted Crust, Sicilian Lasagna Pizza, Cheesy Bites Pizza, The Big New Yorker, The Big Italy, The Insider, The Chicago Dish, the Natural, Pizza Mia and 4forALL.  Each of these pizzas is offered with a variety of different toppings.  Pizza Hut now also offers a variety of Tuscani Pastas.  Menu items outside of the U.S. are generally similar to those offered in the U.S., though pizza toppings are often suited to local preferences and tastes.  Many Pizza Huts offer chicken wings, including over 3,000 stores offering wings under the brand WingStreet, primarily in the U.S.


  
  






Taco Bell








·


The first Taco Bell restaurant was opened in 1962 by Glen Bell in Downey, California, and in 1964, the first Taco Bell franchise was sold.  Taco Bell is based in Irvine, California.


  
  


·


As of year end 2010, Taco Bell was the leader in the U.S. Mexican QSR segment, with a 52 percent market share (Source: The NPD Group, Inc.; NPD Foodworld; CREST) in that segment.


  
  


·


Taco Bell operates in 21 countries and territories throughout the world. As of year end 2010, there were 5,634 Taco Bell units in the U.S., and 262 units outside of the U.S.  Approximately 22 percent of the U.S. units and 1 percent of the non-U.S. units are Concept-owned.


  
  


·


Taco Bell specializes in Mexican-style food products, including various types of tacos, burritos, gorditas, chalupas, quesadillas, taquitos, salads, nachos and other related items.  Additionally, proprietary entrée items include Grilled Stuft Burritos and Border Bowls.  Taco Bell units feature a distinctive bell logo on their signage.










  



5







  




LJS








·


The first LJS restaurant opened in 1969 and the first LJS franchise unit opened later the same year.  LJS is based in Louisville, Kentucky.











·


As of year end 2010, LJS was the leader in the U.S. seafood QSR segment, with a 37 percent market share (Source: The NPD Group, Inc.; NPD Foodworld; CREST) in that segment.


  
  


·


LJS operates in 4 countries and territories throughout the world.  As of year end 2010, there were 964 LJS units in the U.S., and 31 units outside the U.S.  All single-brand units inside and outside of the U.S. are operated by franchisees or licensees.  As of year end 2010, there were 86 Concept-owned multi-brand units that included the LJS concept.


  
  


·


LJS features a variety of seafood and chicken items, including meals featuring batter-dipped fish, chicken and shrimp, non-fried salmon, shrimp and tilapia, hushpuppies and portable snack items.  LJS units typically feature a distinctive seaside/nautical theme.







A&W








·


A&W was founded in Lodi, California by Roy Allen in 1919 and the first A&W franchise unit opened in 1925.  A&W is based in Louisville, Kentucky.


  
  


·


A&W operates in 9 countries and territories throughout the world.  As of year end 2010, there were 322 A&W units in the U.S., and 317 units outside the U.S.  As of year end 2010, all units were operated by franchisees.


  
  


·


A&W serves A&W draft Root Beer and a signature A&W Root Beer float, as well as hot dogs and hamburgers.







Restaurant Operations




Through its Concepts, YUM develops, operates, franchises and licenses a worldwide system of both traditional and non-traditional QSR restaurants.  Traditional units feature dine-in, carryout and, in some instances, drive-thru or delivery services.  Non-traditional units, which are typically licensed outlets, include express units and kiosks which have a more limited menu and operate in non-traditional locations like malls, airports, gasoline service stations, convenience stores, stadiums, amusement parks and colleges, where a full-scale traditional outlet would not be practical or efficient.




Restaurant management structure varies by Concept and unit size.  Generally, each Concept-owned restaurant is led by a restaurant general manager (“RGM”), together with one or more assistant managers, depending on the operating complexity and sales volume of the restaurant.  In the U.S., the average restaurant has 25 to 30 employees, while internationally this figure can be significantly higher depending on the location and sales volume of the restaurant.  Most of the employees work on a part-time basis.  Each Concept issues detailed manuals, which may then be customized to meet local regulations and customs, covering all aspects of restaurant operations, including food handling and product preparation procedures, safety and quality issues, equipment maintenance, facility standards an
d accounting control procedures.  The restaurant management teams are responsible for the day-to-day operation of each unit and for ensuring compliance with operating standards. CHAMPS – which stands for Cleanliness, Hospitality, Accuracy, Maintenance, Product Quality and Speed of Service – is our proprietary core systemwide program for training, measuring and rewarding employee performance against key customer measures.  CHAMPS is intended to align the operating processes of our entire system around one set of standards. RGMs’ efforts, including CHAMPS performance measures, are monitored by Area Coaches.  Area Coaches typically work with approximately six to twelve restaurants.  Various senior operators visit Concept-owned restaurants from time to time to help ensure adherence to system standards and mentor restaurant team members.




  



6







  




Supply and Distribution




The Company’s Concepts, including Concept units operated by its franchisees, are substantial purchasers of a number of food and paper products, equipment and other restaurant supplies. The principal items purchased include chicken, cheese, beef and pork products, seafood, paper and packaging materials.




The Company is committed to conducting its business in an ethical, legal and socially responsible manner.  All restaurants, regardless of their ownership structure or location, must adhere to strict food quality and safety standards.  The guidelines are translated to local market requirements and regulations where appropriate and without compromising the standards.  The Company has not experienced any significant continuous shortages of supplies, and alternative sources for most of these products are generally available.  Prices paid for these supplies fluctuate.  When prices increase, the Concepts may attempt to pass on such increases to their customers, although there is no assurance that this can be done practically.




U.S. Division.  The Company, along with the representatives of the Company’s KFC, Pizza Hut, Taco Bell, LJS and A&W franchisee groups, are members in the Unified FoodService Purchasing Co-op, LLC (the “Unified Co-op”) which was created for the purpose of purchasing certain restaurant products and equipment in the U.S.  The core mission of the Unified Co-op is to provide the lowest possible sustainable store-delivered prices for restaurant products and equipment.  This arrangement combines the purchasing power of the Concept-owned and franchisee restaurants in the U.S. which the Company believes leverages the system’s scale to drive cost savings and effectiveness in the purchasing function.  The Company al
so believes that the Unified Co-op has resulted, and should continue to result, in closer alignment of interests and a stronger relationship with its franchisee community.




Most food products, paper and packaging supplies, and equipment used in restaurant operations are distributed to individual restaurant units by third party distribution companies.  McLane Company, Inc. (“McLane”) is the exclusive distributor for the majority of items used in Concept-owned restaurants in the U.S. and for a substantial number of franchisee and licensee stores.  The Company entered into a new agreement with McLane effective January 1, 2011 relating to distribution to Concept-owned restaurants in the U.S.  This agreement extends through December 31, 2016 and generally restricts Concept-owned restaurants from using alternative distributors in the U.S. for most products.




International and China Divisions.  Outside of the U.S. we and our franchisees use decentralized sourcing and distribution systems involving many different global, regional, and local suppliers and distributors.  In China, we work with approximately 500 suppliers and own the entire distribution system.  In our YRI markets we have approximately 1,500 suppliers, including U.S.-based suppliers that export to many countries.




  



7







  







Trademarks and Patents




The Company and its Concepts own numerous registered trademarks and service marks.  The Company believes that many of these marks, including its Kentucky Fried Chicken®, KFC®, Pizza Hut®, Taco Bell® and Long John Silver’s® marks, have significant value and are materially important to its business.  The Company’s policy is to pursue registration of its important marks whenever feasible and to oppose vigorously any infringement of its marks.  The Company also licenses certain A&W trademarks and service marks (the “A&W Marks”), which are owned by A&W Concentrate Company (formerly A&W Brands, Inc.).  A&W Concentrate Company, which is not affiliated with the Company, has granted the Company an exclusive, worldwide (excluding Canada),
 perpetual, royalty-free license (with the right to sublicense) to use the A&W Marks for restaurant services.




The use of these marks by franchisees and licensees has been authorized in KFC, Pizza Hut, Taco Bell, LJS and A&W franchise and license agreements.  Under current law and with proper use, the Company’s rights in its marks can generally last indefinitely.  The Company also has certain patents on restaurant equipment which, while valuable, are not material to its business.




Working Capital




Information about the Company’s working capital is included in MD&A in Part II, Item 7, pages 25 through 59 and the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in Part II, Item 8, page 64.




Customers




The Company’s business is not dependent upon a single customer or small group of customers.




Seasonal Operations




The Company does not consider its operations to be seasonal to any material degree.




Backlog Orders




Company restaurants have no backlog orders.




Government Contracts




No material portion of the Company’s business is subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts or subcontracts at the election of the U.S. government.




Competition




The retail food industry, in which our Concepts compete, is made up of supermarkets, supercenters, warehouse stores, convenience stores, coffee shops, snack bars, delicatessens and restaurants (including the QSR segment), and is intensely competitive with respect to food quality, price, service, convenience, location and concept.  The industry is often affected by changes in consumer tastes; national, regional or local economic conditions; currency fluctuations; demographic trends; traffic patterns; the type, number and location of competing food retailers and products; and disposable purchasing power.  Each of the Concepts competes with international, national and regional restaurant chains as well as locally-owned restaurants, not only for customers, but also for management and hourly personnel, suitable real esta
te sites and qualified franchisees.  Given the various types and vast number of competitors, our Concepts do not constitute a significant portion of the retail food industry in terms of number of system units or system sales, either on a worldwide or individual market basis.




  



8







  










Research and Development (“R&D”)




The Company’s subsidiaries operate R&D facilities in Louisville, Kentucky (KFC); Dallas, Texas (Pizza Hut and YRI); and Irvine, California (Taco Bell) and in several locations outside the U.S., including Shanghai, China.  The Company expensed $33 million, $31 million and $34 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, for R&D activities.  From time to time, independent suppliers also conduct research and development activities for the benefit of the YUM system.




Environmental Matters




The Company is not aware of any federal, state or local environmental laws or regulations that will materially affect its earnings or competitive position, or result in material capital expenditures.  However, the Company cannot predict the effect on its operations of possible future environmental legislation or regulations.  During 2010, there were no material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities and no such material expenditures are anticipated.




Government Regulation




U.S. Division.  The Company and its U.S. Division are subject to various federal, state and local laws affecting its business.  Each of the Concepts’ restaurants in the U.S. must comply with licensing and regulation by a number of governmental authorities, which include health, sanitation, safety and fire agencies in the state and/or municipality in which the restaurant is located.  In addition, each Concept must comply with various state and federal laws that regulate the franchisor/franchisee relationship.  To date, no Concept has been significantly affected by any difficulty, delay or failure to obtain required licenses or approvals.




The Company and each Concept are also subject to federal and state laws governing such matters as employment and pay practices, overtime, tip credits and working conditions.  The bulk of the Concepts’ employees are paid on an hourly basis at rates related to the federal and state minimum wages.




The Company and each Concept are also subject to federal and state child labor laws which, among other things, prohibit the use of certain “hazardous equipment” by employees younger than 18 years of age.  Neither the Company nor any Concept has been materially adversely affected by such laws to date.




The Company and each Concept, as applicable, continue to monitor their facilities for compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (“ADA”) in order to conform to its requirements.  Under the ADA, the Company or the relevant Concept could be required to expend funds to modify its restaurants to better provide service to, or make reasonable accommodation for the employment of, disabled persons.




International and China Divisions.  The Company’s restaurants outside the U.S. are subject to national and local laws and regulations which are similar to those affecting U.S. restaurants, including laws and regulations concerning labor, health, sanitation and safety.  The restaurants outside the U.S. are also subject to tariffs and regulations on imported commodities and equipment and laws regulating foreign investment.  International compliance with environmental requirements has not had a material 
adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, capital expenditures or competitive position.




  



9







  







Employees




As of year end 2010, the Company and its Concepts employed approximately 378,000 persons, approximately 86 percent of whom were part-time.  Approximately 17 percent of these employees are employed in the U.S.  The Company believes that it provides working conditions and compensation that compare favorably with those of its principal competitors.  The majority of employees are paid on an hourly basis.  Some non-U.S. employees are subject to labor council relationships that vary due to the diverse cultures in which the Company operates.  The Company and its Concepts consider their employee relations to be good.








(d)


Financial Information about Geographic Areas







Financial information about our significant geographic areas (U.S., International Division and China Division) is incorporated herein by reference from Selected Financial Data in Part II, Item 6, page 23; Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) in Part II, Item 7, pages 25 through 59; and in the related Consolidated Financial Statements and footnotes in Part II, Item 8, pages 61 through 124.








(e)


Available Information







The Company makes available through the Investor Relations section of its internet website at www.yum.com its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such material with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Our Corporate Governance Principles and our Code of Conduct are also located within this section of the website.  The reference to the Company’s website address does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on the website and should not be considered part of this document.  These documents, as well 
as our SEC filings, are available in print to any shareholder who requests a copy from our Investor Relations Department.








Item 1A.


Risk Factors.







You should carefully review the risks described below as they identify important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements and historical trends.




Food safety and food-borne illness concerns may have an adverse effect on our business.

 

Food-borne illnesses, such as E. coli, hepatitis A, trichinosis or salmonella, and food safety issues have occurred in the past, and could occur in the future.  Any report or publicity linking us or one of our Concept restaurants, including restaurants operated by our franchisees, to instances of food-borne illness or other food safety issues, including food tampering or contamination, could adversely affect our Concepts’ brands and reputations as well as our revenues and profits.  If customers of our Concepts or franchisees become ill from food-borne illnesses, we and our franchisees may temporarily close some restaurants.  In addition, instances of food-borne illness, food tampering or food contamination occurring solely at restaurants of competitors could adversely affect our sales as a result of 
negative publicity about the foodservice industry generally.  Food-borne illness, food tampering and food contamination could also be caused by food suppliers or distributors and, as a result, could be out of our control.  The occurrence of food-borne illnesses or food safety issues could also adversely affect the price and availability of affected ingredients, which could result in disruptions in our supply chain and/or lower margins for us and our franchisees.




  



10







  










Our China operations subject us to risks that could negatively affect our business.

 

A significant and growing portion of our restaurants are located in China.  As a result, our financial results are increasingly dependent on our results in China, and our business is increasingly exposed to risks there.  These risks include changes in economic conditions (including wage and commodity inflation, consumer spending and unemployment levels), tax rates and laws and consumer preferences, as well as changes in the regulatory environment and increased competition.  In addition, our results of operations in China and the value of our Chinese assets are affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect reported earnings.  There can be no assurance as to the future effect of any such changes on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.</font
>




In addition, any significant or prolonged deterioration in U.S.-China relations could adversely affect our China business.  Certain risks and uncertainties of doing business in China are solely within the control of the Chinese government, and Chinese law regulates the scope of our foreign investments and business conducted within China.  There are also uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of laws and regulations and the enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights in China.  If we were unable to enforce our intellectual property or contract rights in China, our business would be adversely impacted.




Our other foreign operations subject us to risks that could negatively affect our business.

 

A significant portion of our Concepts’ restaurants are operated in foreign countries and territories outside of the U.S. and China, and we intend to continue expansion of our international operations.  As a result, our business is increasingly exposed to risks inherent in foreign operations.  These risks, which can vary substantially by market, include political instability, corruption, social and ethnic unrest, changes in economic conditions (including wage and commodity inflation, consumer spending and unemployment levels), the regulatory environment, tax rates and laws and consumer preferences as well as changes in the laws and policies that govern foreign investment in countries where our restaurants are operated.




In addition, our results of operations and the value of our foreign assets are affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect reported earnings.  More specifically, an increase in the value of the United States Dollar relative to other currencies, such as the Australian Dollar, the British Pound, the Canadian Dollar and the Euro, could have an adverse effect on our reported earnings.  There can be no assurance as to the future effect of any such changes on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.




We may not attain our target development goals and aggressive development could cannibalize existing sales.

 

Our growth strategy depends in large part on our ability to increase our net restaurant count in markets outside the United States, especially China.  The successful development of new units will depend in large part on our ability and the ability of our franchisees to open new restaurants and to operate these restaurants on a profitable basis.  We cannot guarantee that we, or our franchisees, will be able to achieve our expansion goals or that new restaurants will be operated profitably.  Further, there is no assurance that any new restaurant will produce operating results similar to those of our existing restaurants.  Other risks which could impact our ability to increase our net restaurant count include prevailing economic conditions and our, or our franchisees’, ability to obtain suitab
le restaurant locations, obtain required permits and approvals in a timely manner and hire and train qualified personnel.




Our franchisees also frequently depend upon financing from banks and other financial institutions in order to construct and open new restaurants.  If it becomes more difficult or expensive for our franchisees to obtain financing to develop new restaurants, our planned growth could slow and our future revenue and cash flows could be adversely impacted.




In addition, the new restaurants could impact the sales of our existing restaurants nearby.  It is not our intention to open new restaurants that materially cannibalize the sales of our existing restaurants.  However, as with most growing retail and restaurant operations, there can be no assurance that sales cannibalization will not occur or become more significant in the future as we increase our presence in existing markets over time.




  



11







  










Changes in commodity and other operating costs could adversely affect our results of operations.

 

Any increase in certain commodity prices, such as food, energy and supply costs, could adversely affect our operating results.  Because our Concepts and their franchisees provide moderately priced food, our ability to pass along commodity price increases to our customers is limited.  Significant increases in gasoline prices could also result in a decrease of customer traffic at our restaurants or the imposition of fuel surcharges by our distributors, each of which could adversely affect our business.  Our operating expenses also include employee wages and benefits and insurance costs (including workers’ compensation, general liability, property and health) which may increase over time.




Shortages or interruptions in the availability and delivery of food and other supplies may increase costs or reduce revenues.

 

We are dependent upon third parties to make frequent deliveries of food products and supplies that meet our specifications at competitive prices.  Shortages or interruptions in the supply of food items and other supplies to our restaurants could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of items we buy and the operations of our restaurants.  Such shortages or disruptions could be caused by inclement weather, natural disasters such as floods, drought and hurricanes, increased demand, problems in production or distribution, the inability of our vendors to obtain credit, food safety warnings or advisories or the prospect of such pronouncements, or other conditions beyond our control.  A shortage or interruption in the availability of certain food products or supplies could increase costs and limit t
he availability of products critical to restaurant operations.  In addition, failure by a principal distributor for our Concepts and/or our franchisees to meet its service requirements could lead to a disruption of service or supply until a new distributor is engaged, and any disruption could have an adverse effect on our business.




Risks associated with the suppliers from whom our products are sourced and the safety of those products could adversely affect our financial performance.




The products sold by our Concepts and their franchisees are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers.  Political and economic instability in the countries in which foreign suppliers are located, the financial instability of suppliers, suppliers’ failure to meet our standards, product quality issues, inflation, and other factors relating to the suppliers and the countries in which they are located are beyond our control.  These and other factors affecting our suppliers and our access to products could adversely affect our financial performance.




Concerns regarding the safety of food ingredients or products that we source from our suppliers could cause customers to avoid purchasing certain products from us.  Lost confidence on the part of our customers would be difficult and costly to reestablish.




Our operating results are closely tied to the success of our Concepts’ franchisees.




A significant portion of our revenue consists of royalties from our franchisees.  Because a significant and growing portion of our restaurants are run by franchisees, the success of our business is increasingly dependent upon the operational and financial success of our franchisees.  While our franchise agreements set forth certain operational standards and guidelines, we have limited control over how our franchisees’ businesses are run, and any significant inability of our franchisees to operate successfully could adversely affect our operating results through decreased royalty payments.  For example, franchisees may not have access to the financial or management resources that they need to open or continue operating the restaurants contemplated by their franchise agreements with us.  In a
ddition, franchisees may not be able to find suitable sites on which to develop new restaurants or negotiate acceptable lease or purchase terms for the sites, obtain the necessary permits and government approvals or meet construction schedules.




  



12







  










If our franchisees incur too much debt or if economic or sales trends deteriorate such that they are unable to repay existing debt, it could result in financial distress, including insolvency or bankruptcy.  If a significant number of our franchisees become financially distressed, our operating results could be impacted through reduced or delayed royalty payments or increased rent obligations for leased properties on which we are contingently liable.




Our results and financial condition could be affected by the success of our refranchising program.

 

We are in the process of refranchising restaurants in the U.S., which could reduce the percentage of Company ownership of KFCs, Pizza Huts, and Taco Bells in the U.S. from approximately 15% at the end of 2010 to approximately 12% by the end of 2011.  Our ability to execute this plan will depend on, among other things, whether we receive fair offers for these restaurants, whether we can find viable and suitable buyers and how quickly we can agree to terms with potential buyers.  In addition, financing for restaurant purchases can be expensive or difficult to obtain.  If buyers cannot obtain financing at attractive prices – or if they are unable to obtain financing at any price – our refranchising program could be delayed.




Once executed, the success of the refranchising program will depend on, among other things, buyers effectively operating these restaurants, the impact of contingent liabilities incurred in connection with refranchising, and whether the resulting ownership mix of Company-operated and franchisee-operated restaurants allows us to meet our financial objectives.  In addition, refranchising activity could vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year and that volatility could impact our reported earnings.




We could be party to litigation that could adversely affect us by increasing our expenses or subjecting us to significant monetary damages and other remedies.




We are involved in a number of legal proceedings, which include consumer, employment, tort and other litigation.  We are currently a defendant in cases containing class action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state wage and hour and other laws.  Plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits often seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of the potential loss relating to such lawsuits may not be accurately estimated.  Regardless of whether any claims against us are valid, or whether we are ultimately held liable, such litigation may be expensive to defend and may divert time and money away from our operations and hurt our performance.  With respect to insured claims, a judgment for monetary damages in excess of any insurance coverage 
could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.  Any adverse publicity resulting from these allegations may also adversely affect our reputation, which in turn could adversely affect our results.




In addition, the restaurant industry has been subject to claims that relate to the nutritional content of food products, as well as claims that the menus and practices of restaurant chains have led to the obesity of some customers.  We may also be subject to this type of claim in the future and, even if we are not, publicity about these matters (particularly directed at the quick service and fast-casual segments of the industry) may harm our reputation and adversely affect our results.




Health concerns arising from outbreaks of viruses or other diseases may have an adverse effect on our business.




Asian and European countries have experienced outbreaks of Avian Flu, and some commentators have hypothesized that further outbreaks could occur and reach pandemic levels.  Future outbreaks could adversely affect the price and availability of poultry and cause customers to eat less chicken.  Widespread outbreaks could also affect our ability to attract and retain employees.




Furthermore, other viruses such as H1N1 or “swine flu” may be transmitted through human contact, and the risk of contracting viruses could cause employees or guests to avoid gathering in public places, which could adversely affect restaurant guest traffic or the ability to adequately staff restaurants.  We could also be adversely affected if jurisdictions in which we have restaurants impose mandatory closures, seek voluntary closures or impose restrictions on operations of restaurants.  Even if such measures are not implemented and a virus or other disease does not spread significantly, the perceived risk of infection or significant health risk may affect our business.




  



13







  










Our success depends substantially on the value and perception of our brands.




Our success is dependent in large part upon our ability to maintain and enhance the value of our brands and our customers’ connection to our brands.  Brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions on a variety of subjective qualities, and even isolated business incidents can erode brand value and consumer trust, particularly if the incidents receive considerable publicity or result in litigation.  For example, our brands could be damaged by claims or perceptions about the quality of our products regardless of whether such claims or perceptions are accurate.  Consumer demand for our products and our brand value could diminish significantly if any such incidents or other matters erode consumer confidence in us or our products, which would likely result in lower sales and, ultimately, profits.</fo
nt>




Our business may be adversely impacted by general economic conditions.

 

Our results of operations are dependent upon discretionary spending by consumers, which may be affected by general economic conditions globally or in one or more of the markets we serve.  Some of the factors that impact discretionary consumer spending include unemployment, disposable income and consumer confidence.  These and other macroeconomic factors could have an adverse effect on our sales mix, profitability or development plans, which could harm our financial condition and operating results.




The impact of potentially limited credit availability on third party vendors such as our suppliers cannot be predicted.  The inability of our suppliers to access financing, or the insolvency of suppliers, could lead to disruptions in our supply chain which could adversely impact our sales and financial condition.




Changes in governmental regulations may adversely affect our business operations.

 

Our Concepts and their franchisees are subject to numerous laws and regulations around the world.  Our restaurants are subject to state and local licensing and regulation by health, sanitation, food, workplace safety, fire and other agencies.  In addition, we face risks arising from compliance with and enforcement of increasingly complex federal and state immigration laws and regulations in the U.S.




We are also subject to the Americans with Disabilities Act in the U.S. and similar state laws that give civil rights protections to individuals with disabilities in the context of employment, public accommodations and other areas.  The expenses associated with any facilities modifications required by these laws could be material.  Our operations in the U.S. are also subject to the U.S. Fair Labor Standards Act, which governs such matters as minimum wages, overtime and other working conditions, family leave mandates and a variety of similar state laws that govern these and other employment law matters.  The compliance costs associated with these laws and evolving regulations could be substantial, and any failure or alleged failure to comply with these laws could lead to litigation, which could adversely aff
ect our financial condition.




We also face risks from new or changing laws and regulations relating to nutritional content, nutritional labeling, product safety and menu labeling.  Compliance with these laws and regulations can be costly and can increase our exposure to litigation or governmental investigations or proceedings.  New or changing laws and regulations relating to union organizing rights and activities may impact our operations at the restaurant level and increase our cost of labor.  In addition, we are subject to laws relating to information security, privacy, cashless payments and consumer credit, protection and fraud, and any failure or perceived failure to comply with those laws could harm our reputation or lead to litigation, which could adversely affect our financial condition.




  



14







  










We are also subject to increasing environmental regulations, which could result in increased taxation or future restrictions on or increases in costs associated with food and other restaurant supplies, transportation costs and utility costs, any of which could decrease our operating profits and/or necessitate future investments in our restaurant facilities and equipment to achieve compliance.




The impact of current laws and regulations, the effect of future changes in laws or regulations that impose additional requirements and the consequences of litigation relating to current or future laws and regulations, or our inability to respond effectively to significant regulatory or public policy issues, could increase our compliance and other costs of doing business and therefore have an adverse effect on our results of operations.  Failure to comply with the laws and regulatory requirements of federal, state and local authorities could result in, among other things, revocation of required licenses, administrative enforcement actions, fines and civil and criminal liability.  Compliance with these laws and regulations can be costly and can increase our exposure to litigation or governmental investigations or pro
ceedings.




Our effective tax rate could increase, negatively impacting our results of operations and financial condition.




A significant percentage of our profits are earned outside the U.S. and taxed at lower rates than the U.S. statutory rates.  If we were to experience an unforeseen decrease in our cash flows from our U.S. businesses or were unable to refinance future U.S. debt maturities we may be required to repatriate future international earnings to fund our U.S. cash needs.  Such international earnings would be subject to U.S. tax at the point in time we did not believe they were permanently invested outside the U.S., which could cause our worldwide effective tax rate to increase.




Additionally, our federal, state and local tax returns are frequently the subject of audits by taxing authorities, and those audits may result in tax assessments and/or penalties.  Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, if the IRS or other taxing authority disagrees with the positions we have taken on our tax returns, we could face additional tax liability, including interest and penalties.  There can be no assurance that payment of such additional amounts upon final adjudication of any disputes will not have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position.




Failure to protect the integrity and security of individually identifiable data of our guests and employees could expose us to litigation and damage our reputation.

 

We receive and maintain certain personal information about our guests and employees.  The use of this information by us is regulated by applicable law, as well as by certain third party contracts.  If our security and information systems are compromised or our business associates fail to comply with these laws and regulations and this information is obtained by unauthorized persons or used inappropriately, it could adversely affect our reputation, as well as our restaurant operations and results of operations and financial condition.  Additionally, we could be subject to litigation or the imposition of penalties.  As privacy and information security laws and regulations change, we may incur additional costs to ensure we remain in compliance.

 

The retail food industry in which we operate is highly competitive.

 

The retail food industry in which we operate is highly competitive with respect to price and quality of food products, new product development, price, advertising levels and promotional initiatives, customer service, reputation, restaurant location, and attractiveness and maintenance of properties.  If consumer or dietary preferences change, or our restaurants are unable to compete successfully with other retail food outlets in new and existing markets, our business could be adversely affected.  We also face growing competition as a result of convergence in grocery, deli and restaurant services, including the offering by the grocery industry of convenient meals, including pizzas and entrees with side dishes.  In addition, in the retail food industry, labor is a primary operating cost component.  
Competition for qualified employees could also require us to pay higher wages to attract a sufficient number of employees, which could adversely impact our margins.




  



15







  














Item 1B