Item 1A. 
        
            Risk Factors.    


 

We face a variety of risks that are inherent in our business and our industry, including operational, legal, regulatory and product risks.  The following are some of the more significant factors that could affect our business and our results of operations.  Other factors may exist that the Company cannot anticipate or that the Company does not consider to be significant based on information that is currently available.

 

Health concerns arising from outbreaks of Avian Flu may have an adverse effect on our business.

 

Asian and European countries have experienced outbreaks of Avian Flu, and some commentators have hypothesized that further outbreaks could occur and reach pandemic levels.  While fully-cooked chicken has been determined to be safe for consumption, and while the Company has taken and continues to take measures to anticipate and minimize the effect of these outbreaks on our business, any further outbreaks could adversely affect the price and availability of poultry and cause customers to shift their preferences. In addition, outbreaks on a widespread basis could also affect our ability to attract and retain employees.

 

 

9





Food safety and food-borne illness concerns may have an adverse effect on our business.

 

The Company considers food safety a top priority and dedicates substantial resources to ensure that our customers enjoy safe, quality food products.  However, food-borne illnesses (such as E. coli, hepatitis A, trichinosis or salmonella) and food safety issues have occurred in the past (see Item 3, Legal Proceedings, in this Form 10-K for a discussion of litigation arising from an E. coli outbreak allegedly linked to a number of Taco Bell restaurants in the Northeast U.S. during November/December 2006), and could occur in the future.  If such instances of food-borne illness or other food safety issues were to occur, whether at our restaurants or those of our competitors, negative publicity could result which could adversely affect sales and profitability.  If our customers become ill from food-borne illnesses, we could also be forced to temporarily close some restaurants.  Additionally, the occurrence of
food-borne illnesses or food safety issues could adversely affect the price and availability of affected ingredients.  Finally, like other companies in the restaurant industry, some of our products may contain genetically engineered food products; increased regulation of and opposition to genetically engineered food products have on occasion and may in the future force us to use alternative sources at increased costs.  

 

Our foreign operations subject us to risks that could negatively affect our business.

 

Our restaurants are operated in numerous countries and territories and our foreign business is significant.  We intend to further expand our international operations over the next several years.  As a result, our business and operations are subject to the risk of changes in economic conditions, tax systems, consumer preferences, social conditions and political conditions inherent in foreign operations, including changes in the laws and policies that govern foreign investment in countries where our restaurants are operated, as well as changes in United States laws and regulations relating to foreign trade and investment.  In addition, our results of operations and the value of our foreign assets are affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which may favorably or adversely affect reported earnings.  There can be no assurance as to the future effect of any such changes on our results of
operations, financial condition or cash flows.

 

Mainland China is one of our fastest developing markets.  Any significant or prolonged deterioration in U.S.-China relations could adversely affect our China business.  Our growing investments in our China operations will increase our exposure in this market.  Many of the risks and uncertainties of doing business in China are solely within the control of the Chinese government.  China’s government regulates the scope of our foreign investments and business conducted within China.  Although management believes it has structured our China operations to comply with local laws, there are uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of laws and regulations and the enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights in China.  If we were unable to enforce our intellectual property and contract rights in China, our business would be adversely impacted.

 

Changes in commodity and other operating costs or supply chain and business disruptions could adversely affect our results of operations.

 

While the Company takes measures to anticipate and react to changes in food and supply costs, any increase in the prices of the ingredients most critical to our menu, such as beef, chicken, cheese and produce, among others, could adversely affect our operating results.  Although we try to manage the impact that these fluctuations have on our operating results, we remain susceptible to increases in food costs as a result of factors beyond our control, such as general economic conditions, seasonal fluctuations, weather conditions, demand, food safety concerns, product recalls, labor disputes and government regulations.  In addition to food, we purchase electricity, oil and natural gas needed to operate our restaurants, and suppliers purchase gasoline needed to transport food and supplies to us.  Any significant increase in energy costs could adversely affect our business through higher rates and the
imposition of fuel surcharges by our suppliers.  Because we provide moderately priced food, we may choose not to, or be unable to, pass along commodity price increases to our customers.  Additionally, significant increases in gasoline prices could result in a decrease of customer traffic at our restaurants.  We rely on third party distribution companies to deliver food and supplies to our stores.  Interruption of distribution services due to financial distress or other issues could impact our operations.  Our operating costs also include premiums that we pay for our insurance (including workers’ compensation, general liability, property and health) which 

 

10




may increase over time, thereby further increasing our costs.  Finally, our industry is susceptible to natural disasters which could result in restaurant closures and business disruptions.

 

Our operating results are closely tied to the success of our Concepts’ franchisees. 

As a result of our franchising programs, our operating results are dependent upon the sales volumes and viability of our franchisees.  Any significant inability of our franchisees to operate successfully could adversely affect our operating results.  Franchisees may not have access to the financial or management resources that they need to open or continue operating the restaurants contemplated by their franchise agreements with us, or be able to find suitable sites on which to develop them.  In addition, franchisees may not be able to negotiate acceptable lease or purchase terms for the sites, obtain the necessary permits and government approvals or meet construction schedules.  Our franchisees generally depend upon financing from banks and other financial institutions in order to construct and open new restaurants.  In some instances, financing has been difficult to obtain for some operators.  Any of
these problems could slow our planned growth. 

We could be party to litigation that could adversely affect us by increasing our expenses or subjecting us to material money damages and other remedies.

 

As a restaurant industry participant, we are susceptible to claims filed by customers alleging that we are responsible for an illness or injury they suffered at or after a visit to our restaurants.  Regardless of whether any claims against us are valid, or whether we are ultimately held liable, such litigation may be expensive to defend and may divert time and money away from our operations and hurt our performance.  A judgment for significant monetary damages in excess of any insurance coverage could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.  Any adverse publicity resulting from these allegations may also adversely affect our reputation, which in turn could adversely affect our results.

 

In addition, the restaurant industry has been subject to claims that relate to the nutritional content of food products, as well as claims that the menus and practices of restaurant chains have led to the obesity of some guests.  We may also be subject to this type of claim in the future and, even if we are not, publicity about these matters (particularly directed at the quick service and fast-casual segments of the industry) may harm our reputation and adversely affect our results.  

 

Changes in governmental regulations may adversely affect our business operations. 

 

We and our franchisees are subject to various federal, state and local regulations. Each of our restaurants is subject to state and local licensing and regulation by health, sanitation, food and workplace safety and other agencies.  Requirements of local authorities with respect to zoning, land use, licensing, permitting and environmental factors could delay or prevent development of new restaurants in particular locations.

 

We are subject to the Americans with Disabilities Act and similar state laws that give civil rights protections to individuals with disabilities in the context of employment, public accommodations and other areas.  The expenses associated with any facilities modifications required by these laws could be material.  Our operations are also subject to the U.S. Fair Labor Standards Act, which governs such matters as minimum wages, overtime and other working conditions, family leave mandates and a variety of similar state laws that govern these and other employment law matters.  The compliance costs associated with these laws and evolving regulations could be substantial.

 

We may not attain our target development goals.  

 

We are pursuing a disciplined growth strategy, which, to be successful, will depend in large part on our ability and the ability of our franchisees to upgrade existing restaurants and open new restaurants, and to operate these restaurants on a profitable basis.  We cannot guarantee that we, or our franchisees, will be able to achieve our expansion goals or that new, upgraded or converted restaurants will be operated profitably.  Further, there is no assurance that any restaurant we open or convert will obtain operating results similar to those of our existing restaurants.  The success of our planned expansion, including our multibranding initiatives, will depend upon numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control.

 

11




The restaurant industry in which we operate is highly competitive. 

 

The restaurant industry in which we operate is highly competitive with respect to price and quality of food products, new product development, advertising levels and promotional initiatives, customer service, reputation, restaurant location, and attractiveness and maintenance of properties.  If our restaurants and franchised restaurants are unable to compete successfully with other restaurants in new and existing markets, our business could be adversely affected.  In the restaurant industry, labor is a primary operating cost component.  Competition for qualified employees could also require us to pay higher wages to attract a sufficient number of employees.  In addition, our success depends to a significant extent on numerous factors affecting discretionary consumer spending, including economic conditions, disposable consumer income and consumer confidence.  Adverse changes in these factors could reduce
guest traffic or impose practical limits on pricing, either of which could harm our results of operations.

 





    
        
            Item 1B