 "Risk Factors" on page 8 for a discussion of risks relating to federal, state, local and international regulation of our business.EmployeesAs of year end 2013, the Company and its Concepts employed approximately 539,000 persons, approximately 86 percent of whom were part-time.    The Company believes that it provides working conditions and compensation that compare favorably with those of its principal competitors.  The majority of employees are paid on an hourly basis.  Some employees are subject to labor council relationships that vary due to the diverse cultures in which the Company operates.  The Company and its Concepts consider their employee relations to be good.Financial Information about Geographic AreasFinancial information about our significant geographic areas (China Division, International Division, the U.S. and India) is incorporated herein by reference from Selected Financial Data in Part II, Item 6, pages 19 and 20; MD&A in Part II, Item 7, pages 21 through 51; and in the related Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8, pages 52 through 101.Available InformationThe Company makes available through the Investor Relations section of its internet website at http://yum.com its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such material 7with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") at http://www.sec.gov.  These reports may also be obtained by visiting the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549 or by calling the SEC at 1 (800) SEC-0330.  Our Corporate Governance Principles and our Code of Conduct are also located within the Investor Relations section of the Company's website.  The reference to the Company’s website address does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on the website and should not be considered part of this document.  These documents, as well as our SEC filings, are available in print free of charge to any shareholder who requests a copy from our Investor Relations Department.Item 1A.Risk Factors.You should carefully review the risks described below as they identify important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements and historical trends.Food safety and food-borne illness concerns may have an adverse effect on our business.Food-borne illnesses, such as E. coli, hepatitis A, trichinosis or salmonella, and food safety issues, such as food tampering, contamination or adulteration, have occurred in the past and could occur in the future.  Any report or publicity linking us or one of our Concept restaurants, including restaurants operated by our Concepts’ franchisees, to instances of food-borne illness or food safety issues could adversely affect our Concepts’ brands and reputations as well as our revenues and profits and possibly lead to litigation.  If a customer of our Concepts becomes ill from food-borne illnesses or as a result of food safety issues, restaurants in our system may be temporarily closed, which would decrease our revenues.  In addition, instances or allegations of food-borne illness or food safety issues, real or perceived, involving our restaurants, restaurants of competitors, suppliers or distributors (regardless of whether we use or have used those suppliers or distributors), or otherwise involving the types of food served at our restaurants, could result in negative publicity that could adversely affect our sales.  The occurrence of food-borne illnesses or food safety issues could also adversely affect the price and availability of affected ingredients, which could result in disruptions in our supply chain and/or lower margins for us and our Concepts’ franchisees.Our significant China operations subject us to risks that could negatively affect our business.A significant and growing portion of our restaurants are located, and our revenues and profits originate, in China.  As a consequence, our financial results are increasingly dependent on our results in China, and our business is increasingly exposed to risks there.  These risks include changes in economic conditions (including consumer spending, unemployment levels and wage and commodity inflation), income and non-income based tax rates and laws and consumer preferences, as well as changes in the regulatory environment and increased competition.  In addition, our results of operations in China and the value of our Chinese assets are affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect reported earnings.  There can be no assurance as to the future effect of any such changes on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.In addition, any significant or prolonged deterioration in U.S.-China relations could adversely affect our China business.  Certain risks and uncertainties of doing business in China are solely within the control of the Chinese government, and Chinese law regulates the scope of our foreign investments and business conducted within China.  There are also uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of laws and regulations and the enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights in China.  If we were unable to enforce our intellectual property or contract rights in China, our business would be adversely impacted.Health concerns arising from outbreaks of viruses or other diseases may have an adverse effect on our business.Outbreaks of avian flu occur from time to time around the world, including in China where a significant portion of our profits and revenues originate.  It is possible that outbreaks in China and elsewhere could reach pandemic levels.  Public concern over avian flu generally may cause fear about the consumption of chicken, eggs and other products derived from poultry, which could cause customers to consume less poultry and related products.  This would likely result in lower revenues and profits.  Avian flu outbreaks could also adversely affect the price and availability of poultry, which could negatively impact our profit margins and revenues.  Widespread outbreaks could also affect our ability to attract and retain employees.Furthermore, other viruses such as H1N1 or “swine flu” may be transmitted through human contact, and the risk of contracting viruses could cause employees or guests to avoid gathering in public places, which could adversely affect restaurant guest traffic or the ability to adequately staff restaurants.  We could also be adversely affected if jurisdictions in which we have restaurants impose mandatory closures, seek voluntary closures or impose restrictions on operations of restaurants.  Even if such measures are not implemented and a virus or other disease does not spread significantly, the perceived risk of infection or health risk may affect our business.  8Our foreign operations subject us to risks that could negatively affect our business.A significant portion of our Concepts’ restaurants are operated in countries and territories outside of the U.S., and we intend to continue expansion of our international operations.  As a result, our business is increasingly exposed to risks inherent in foreign operations.  These risks, which can vary substantially by country, include political instability, corruption, social and ethnic unrest, changes in economic conditions (including consumer spending, unemployment levels and wage and commodity inflation), the regulatory environment, income and non-income based tax rates and laws and consumer preferences as well as changes in the laws and policies that govern foreign investment in countries where our restaurants are operated.In addition, our results of operations and the value of our foreign assets are affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect reported earnings.  More specifically, an increase in the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to other currencies, such as the Australian Dollar, the British Pound, the Canadian Dollar and the Euro, as well as currencies in certain emerging markets, could have an adverse effect on our reported earnings.  There can be no assurance as to the future effect of any such changes on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.Failure to protect the integrity and security of personal information of our customers and employees could result in substantial costs, expose us to litigation and damage our reputation.We receive and maintain certain personal information about our customers and employees.  The use of this information is regulated by applicable law, as well as by certain third-party contracts.  If our security and information systems are compromised or our employees, franchisees or vendors fail to comply with these laws and regulations and this information is obtained by unauthorized persons or used inappropriately, it could result in liabilities and penalties and could damage our reputation, cause us to incur substantial costs and result in a loss of customer confidence, which could adversely affect our restaurant operations and results of operations and financial condition.  Additionally, we could be subject to litigation, government enforcement actions and private litigation as a result of any such failure. Shortages or interruptions in the availability and delivery of food and other supplies may increase costs or reduce revenues.The products sold by our Concepts and their franchisees are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers.  We are also dependent upon third parties to make frequent deliveries of food products and supplies that meet our specifications at competitive prices.  Shortages or interruptions in the supply of food items and other supplies to our restaurants could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of items we buy and the operations of our restaurants.  Such shortages or disruptions could be caused by inclement weather, natural disasters such as floods, drought and hurricanes, increased demand, problems in production or distribution, the inability of our vendors to obtain credit, political instability in the countries in which foreign suppliers and distributors are located, the financial instability of suppliers and distributors, suppliers’ or distributors’ failure to meet our standards, product quality issues, inflation, other factors relating to the suppliers and distributors and the countries in which they are located, food safety warnings or advisories or the prospect of such pronouncements or other conditions beyond our control.  A shortage or interruption in the availability of certain food products or supplies could increase costs and limit the availability of products critical to restaurant operations, which in turn could lead to restaurant closures and/or a decrease in sales.  In addition, failure by a principal distributor for our Concepts and/or our Concepts’ franchisees to meet its service requirements could lead to a disruption of service or supply until a new distributor is engaged, and any disruption could have an adverse effect on our business.We may not attain our target development goals, and aggressive development could cannibalize existing sales.Our growth strategy depends in large part on our ability to increase our net restaurant count in markets outside the U.S., especially China and other emerging markets.  The successful development of new units will depend in large part on our ability and the ability of our Concepts’ franchisees to open new restaurants and to operate these restaurants on a profitable basis.  We cannot guarantee that we, or our Concepts’ franchisees, will be able to achieve our expansion goals or that new restaurants will be operated profitably.  Further, there is no assurance that any new restaurant will produce operating results similar to those of our existing restaurants.  Other risks which could impact our ability to increase our net restaurant count include prevailing economic conditions and our, or our Concepts’ franchisees’ ability to obtain suitable restaurant locations, negotiate acceptable lease or purchase terms for the locations, obtain required permits and approvals in a timely manner, hire and train qualified personnel and meet construction schedules.Expansion into target markets could also be affected by our Concepts’ franchisees’ ability to obtain financing to construct and open new restaurants.  If it becomes more difficult or more expensive for our Concepts’ franchisees to obtain financing to develop new restaurants, the expected growth of our system could slow and our future revenues and operating cash flows could be adversely impacted.9In addition, the new restaurants could impact the sales of our existing restaurants nearby.  There can be no assurance that sales cannibalization will not occur or become more significant in the future as we increase our presence in existing markets.Changes in commodity and other operating costs could adversely affect our results of operations.Any increase in certain commodity prices, such as food, supply and energy costs, could adversely affect our operating results.  Because our Concepts and their franchisees provide competitively priced food, our ability to pass along commodity price increases to our customers is limited.  Significant increases in gasoline prices could also result in a decrease of customer traffic at our restaurants or the imposition of fuel surcharges by our distributors, each of which could adversely affect our profit margins.  Our operating expenses also include employee wages and benefits and insurance costs (including workers’ compensation, general liability, property and health) which may increase over time.  Any such increase could adversely affect our profit margins.Our operating results are closely tied to the success of our Concepts’ franchisees.A significant portion of our restaurants are operated by franchisees from whom we derive a significant portion of our revenues in the form of royalty payments.  As a result, the success of our business depends in part upon the operational and financial success of our Concepts’ franchisees.  We have limited control over how our Concepts’ franchisees’ businesses are run, and the inability of our Concepts’ franchisees to operate successfully could adversely affect our operating results through decreased royalty payments.   If franchisees incur too much debt or if economic or sales trends deteriorate such that they are unable to operate profitably or repay existing debt, it could result in financial distress, including insolvency or bankruptcy.  If a significant franchisee or a significant number of our Concepts’ franchisees become financially distressed, our operating results could be impacted through reduced or delayed royalty payments or increased rent obligations for leased properties on which we are contingently liable.Our success depends substantially on the value and perception of our brands.Our success depends in large part upon our ability to maintain and enhance the value of our brands and our customers’ connection to our brands.  Brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions on a variety of subjective qualities.  Business incidents, whether isolated or recurring and whether originating from us, our franchisees or suppliers, can significantly reduce brand value and consumer trust, particularly if the incidents receive considerable publicity or result in litigation.  For example, our brands could be damaged by claims or perceptions about the quality or safety of our products or the quality of our suppliers, regardless of whether such claims or perceptions are true.  Any such incident could cause a decline in consumer confidence in, or the perception of, our Concepts and/or our products and decrease the value of our brands as well as consumer demand for our products, which would likely result in lower revenues and profits.Our inability or failure to recognize, respond to and effectively manage the accelerated impact of social media could materially adversely impact our business.There has been a marked increase in the use of social media platforms, including weblogs (blogs), social media websites, and other forms of Internet-based communications which allow individuals access to a broad audience of consumers and other interested persons.  Many social media platforms immediately publish the content their subscribers and participants post, often without filters or checks on accuracy of the content posted.  Information posted on such platforms at any time may be adverse to our interests and/or may be inaccurate.  The dissemination of information online could harm our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations, regardless of the information’s accuracy.  The harm may be immediate without affording us an opportunity for redress or correction.  Other risks associated with the use of social media include improper disclosure of proprietary information, negative comments about our Concepts, exposure of personally identifiable information, fraud and out-of-date information. The inappropriate use of social media by our customers or employees could increase our costs, lead to litigation or result in negative publicity that could damage our reputation.A suspension of the Chinese affiliates of the “Big Four” accounting firms may impact our ability to access capital markets and could result in other material adverse effects.In January 2014, a U.S. administrative law court issued an initial ruling to suspend Chinese affiliates of the global “Big Four” accounting firms, including the Chinese affiliate of our independent auditor, from auditing U.S.-listed companies for six months.  While we believe the likelihood of the suspension becoming effective is remote, it is difficult to determine the potential consequences 10if the ruling is sustained.  However, given the significance of our China Division to our consolidated financial statements, it is possible that we would be unable to include audited and/or reviewed consolidated financial statements in the Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Annual Reports on Form 10-K that we are required to file with the SEC.  As a result, we could be unable to file our reports in a timely manner or such filings would be considered deficient.  Until such reviews or audits are completed, our filings under the Exchange Act could continue to be deficient or untimely, and our ability to access the capital markets could be significantly limited.  These issues could render us temporarily ineligible for use of both shelf registration and “short-form” registration that allows us to incorporate our prior filings by reference.  Our inability to satisfy our reporting obligations as a public company may lead the New York Stock Exchange to commence delisting procedures with respect to our common shares.  In addition, the failure to deliver audited financial statements could also constitute an event of default under our Credit Facility.  Moreover, any negative news about the proceedings against the “Big Four” audit firms could erode investor confidence in financial statements relating to our Chinese operations.We could be party to litigation that could adversely affect us by increasing our expenses or subjecting us to significant monetary damages and other remedies.From time to time we are involved in a number of legal proceedings, which include consumer, employment, tort, patent, securities, derivative and other litigation (see the discussion of Legal Proceedings in Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Report).  We are currently a defendant in cases containing class action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state wage and hour, disability and other laws.  We are also currently a defendant in securities and derivative lawsuits alleging inadequate disclosures in violation of federal securities laws.  Plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits often seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of the potential loss relating to such lawsuits may not be accurately estimated.  Regardless of whether any claims against us are valid, or whether we are ultimately held liable, such litigation may be expensive to defend and may divert resources away from our operations and negatively impact reported earnings.  With respect to insured claims, a judgment for monetary damages in excess of any insurance coverage could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.  Any adverse publicity resulting from these allegations may also adversely affect our reputation, which in turn could adversely affect our results.In addition, the restaurant industry has been subject to claims that relate to the nutritional content of food products, as well as claims that the menus and practices of restaurant chains have led to the obesity of some customers.  We may also be subject to this type of claim in the future and, even if we are not, publicity about these matters (particularly directed at the quick service and fast-casual segments of the industry) may harm our reputation and adversely affect our results.Changes in, or noncompliance with, governmental regulations may adversely affect our business operations, growth prospects or financial condition.Our Concepts and their franchisees are subject to numerous laws and regulations around the world.  These laws change regularly and are increasingly complex.  For example, we are subject to:•The Americans with Disabilities Act in the U.S. and similar state laws that give civil rights protections to individuals with disabilities in the context of employment, public accommodations and other areas.  •The U.S. Fair Labor Standards Act, which governs matters such as minimum wages, overtime and other working conditions, family leave mandates and a variety of similar state laws that govern these and other employment law matters.  •Anti-bribery and corruption laws and regulations, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act and similar laws, which are the subject of increasing scrutiny and enforcement around the world.•New or changing laws and regulations in government-mandated health care benefits such as the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.•New or changing laws and regulations relating to nutritional content, nutritional labeling, product safety and menu labeling.•New or changing laws relating to state and local licensing.•New or changing laws and regulations relating to health, sanitation, food, workplace safety and fire safety and prevention.•New or changing laws and regulations relating to union organizing rights and activities.  •New or changing laws relating to information security, privacy, cashless payments and consumer credit, protection and fraud.•New or changing environmental regulations.•New or changing federal and state immigration laws and regulations in the U.S.Compliance with new or existing laws and regulations could impact our operations.  In addition, the compliance costs associated with these laws and regulations could be substantial.  Any failure or alleged failure to comply with these laws or regulations could adversely affect our reputation, international expansion efforts, growth prospects and financial condition or result in, among other things, litigation, revocation of required licenses, governmental investigations or proceedings, administrative enforcement actions, 11fines and civil and criminal liability.  Publicity relating to any such noncompliance could also harm our reputation and adversely affect our revenues.Tax matters, including changes in tax rates, disagreements with taxing authorities and imposition of new taxes could impact our results of operations and financial condition.A significant percentage of our profits are earned outside the U.S. and taxed at lower rates than the U.S. statutory rates.  Historically, the cash we generate outside the U.S. has principally been used to fund our international development.  However, if the cash generated by our U.S. business is not sufficient to meet our need for cash in the U.S., we may need to repatriate a greater portion of our international earnings to the U.S. in the future.  We are required to record U.S. income tax expense in our financial statements at the point in time when our management determines that such funds are not permanently invested outside the U.S.  This could cause our worldwide effective tax rate to increase materially. We are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property, withholding and franchise taxes in both the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions.  We are also subject to regular reviews, examinations and audits by the Internal Revenue Service and other taxing authorities with respect to such income and non-income based taxes inside and outside of the U.S.  If the IRS or another taxing authority disagrees with our tax positions, we could face additional tax liability, including interest and penalties.  Payment of such additional amounts upon final settlement or adjudication of any disputes could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position.In addition, we are directly and indirectly affected by new tax legislation and regulation and the interpretation of tax laws and regulations worldwide.  Changes in such legislation, regulation or interpretation could increase our taxes and have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.Our business may be adversely impacted by general economic conditions. Our results of operations are dependent upon discretionary spending by consumers, which may be affected by general economic conditions globally or in one or more of the markets we serve.  Some of the factors that impact discretionary consumer spending include unemployment, disposable income and consumer confidence.  These and other macroeconomic factors could have an adverse effect on our sales, profitability or development plans, which could harm our financial condition and operating results.The retail food industry in which we operate is highly competitive. The retail food industry in which we operate is highly competitive with respect to price and quality of food products, new product development, advertising levels and promotional initiatives, customer service, reputation, restaurant location, and attractiveness and maintenance of properties.  If consumer or dietary preferences change, or our restaurants are unable to compete successfully with other retail food outlets in new and existing markets, our business could be adversely affected.  We also face growing competition as a result of convergence in grocery, deli and restaurant services, including the offering by the grocery industry of convenient meals, including pizzas and entrees with side dishes.  In addition, in the retail food industry, labor is a primary operating cost component.  Competition for qualified employees could also require us to pay higher wages to attract a sufficient number of employees, which could adversely impact our profit margins.12Item 1B