 "Risk Factors" for a discussion of risks relating to federal, state, local and international regulation of our business.EmployeesAs of year end 2015, the Company and its subsidiaries employed approximately 505,000 persons.  The Company believes that it provides working conditions and compensation that compare favorably with those of its principal competitors.  The majority of employees are paid on an hourly basis.  Some employees are subject to labor council relationships that vary due to the diverse cultures in which the Company operates.  The Company and its Concepts consider their employee relations to be good.Financial Information about Geographic AreasFinancial information about our significant geographic areas is incorporated herein by reference from the related Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8.Available InformationThe Company makes available through the Investor Relations section of its internet website at http://yum.com its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such material with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") at http://www.sec.gov.  These reports may also be obtained by visiting the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549 or by calling the SEC at 1 (800) SEC-0330.  Our Corporate Governance Principles and our Code of Conduct are also located within the Investor Relations section of the Company's website.  The reference to the Company’s website address does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on the website and should not be considered part of this document.  These documents, as well as our SEC filings, are available in print free of charge to any shareholder who requests a copy from our Investor Relations Department.Item 1A.Risk Factors.Risks Related to Our Business and IndustryYou should carefully review the risks described below as they identify important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements and historical trends.Food safety and food-borne illness concerns may have an adverse effect on our business.Food-borne illnesses, such as E. coli, hepatitis A, trichinosis and salmonella, occur or may occur within our system from time to time.  In addition, food safety issues such as food tampering, contamination and adulteration occur or may occur within our system from time to time.  Any report or publicity linking us or one of our Concept restaurants, including restaurants operated by our Concepts’ franchisees, to instances of food-borne illness or food safety issues could adversely affect our Concepts’ brands and reputations as well as our revenues and profits, and possibly lead to product liability claims, litigation and damages.  If a customer of our Concepts becomes ill from food-borne illnesses or as a result of food safety issues, restaurants in our system may be temporarily closed, which would decrease our revenues.  In addition, instances or allegations of food-borne illness or food safety 7issues, real or perceived, involving our restaurants, restaurants of competitors, or suppliers or distributors (regardless of whether we use or have used those suppliers or distributors), or otherwise involving the types of food served at our restaurants, could result in negative publicity that could adversely affect our sales.  The occurrence of food-borne illnesses or food safety issues could also adversely affect the price and availability of affected ingredients, which could result in disruptions in our supply chain and/or lower margins for us and our Concepts’ franchisees.Our significant China operations subject us to risks that could negatively affect our business.A significant and growing portion of our restaurants are located, and our revenues and profits originate, in China.  As a consequence, our overall financial results are heavily dependent on our results in China, and our business is significantly exposed to risks there.  These risks include changes in economic conditions (including consumer spending, unemployment levels and wage and commodity inflation), consumer preferences, taxation (including income and non-income based tax rates and laws) and the regulatory environment, as well as increased media scrutiny of our business and industry and increased competition.  In addition, our results of operations in China and the value of our Chinese assets are affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect reported earnings.  An increase in the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to the Chinese Renminbi could have an adverse effect on our reported earnings.  There can be no assurance as to the future effect of any such changes on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. In addition, any significant or prolonged deterioration in U.S.-China relations could adversely affect our China business.  Certain risks and uncertainties of doing business in China are solely within the control of the Chinese government, and Chinese law regulates the scope of our foreign investments and business conducted within China.  There are also uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of laws and regulations and the enforceability of intellectual property and contract rights in China.  If we were unable to enforce our intellectual property or contract rights in China, our business would be adversely impacted.Although we have announced our intention to separate our China business through a spin-off to existing shareholders, following the spin-off the new China entity will be our largest franchisee or licensee, and we will therefore continue to be exposed to many of the foregoing risks even after the completion of the proposed spin-off.Health concerns arising from outbreaks of viruses or other diseases may have an adverse effect on our business.Outbreaks of avian flu occur from time to time around the world, and these outbreaks could reach pandemic levels.  Public concern over avian flu generally may cause fear about the consumption of chicken, eggs and other products derived from poultry, which could cause customers to consume less poultry and related products.  This would likely result in lower revenues and profits. Avian flu outbreaks could also adversely affect the price and availability of poultry, which could negatively impact our profit margins and revenues.  Widespread outbreaks could also affect our ability to attract and retain employees.Furthermore, other viruses such as H1N1 or “swine flu” may be transmitted through human contact, and the risk of contracting viruses could cause employees or guests to avoid gathering in public places, which could adversely affect restaurant guest traffic or the ability to adequately staff restaurants.  We could also be adversely affected if jurisdictions in which we have restaurants impose mandatory closures, seek voluntary closures or impose restrictions on operations of restaurants.  Even if such measures are not implemented and a virus or other disease does not spread significantly, the perceived risk of infection or health risk may affect our business.Our international operations subject us to risks that could negatively affect our business.A significant portion of our Concepts’ restaurants are operated in countries and territories outside of the U.S., and we intend to continue expansion of our international operations.  As a result, our business is increasingly exposed to risks inherent in international operations.  These risks, which can vary substantially by country, include political instability, corruption, social and ethnic unrest, changes in economic conditions (including consumer spending, unemployment levels and wage and commodity inflation), the regulatory environment, income and non-income based tax rates and laws, foreign exchange control regimes and consumer preferences as well as changes in the laws and policies that govern foreign investment in countries where our restaurants are operated.In addition, our results of operations and the value of our foreign assets are affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect reported earnings.  More specifically, an increase in the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to other currencies, such as the Australian Dollar, the British Pound, the Canadian Dollar and the Euro, as well as currencies in certain emerging markets, such as the Russian Ruble, could have an adverse effect on our reported earnings.  There can be no assurance as to the future effect of any such changes on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.  8Failure to protect the integrity and security of personal information of our customers and employees could result in substantial costs, expose us to litigation and damage our reputation.We receive and maintain certain personal financial and other information about our customers and employees.  The use and handling of this information is regulated by evolving and increasingly demanding laws and regulations, as well as by certain third-party contracts.  If our security and information systems are compromised as a result of data corruption or loss, cyber-attack or a network security incident or our employees, franchisees or vendors fail to comply with these laws and regulations and this information is obtained by unauthorized persons or used inappropriately, it could result in liabilities and penalties and could damage our reputation, cause us to incur substantial costs and result in a loss of customer confidence, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  Additionally, we could be subject to litigation and government enforcement actions as a result of any such failure.Shortages or interruptions in the availability and delivery of food and other supplies may increase costs or reduce revenues.The products sold by our Concepts and their franchisees are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers.  We are also dependent upon third parties to make frequent deliveries of food products and supplies that meet our specifications at competitive prices.  Shortages or interruptions in the supply of food items and other supplies to our restaurants could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of items we use and the operations of our restaurants.  Such shortages or disruptions could be caused by inclement weather, natural disasters such as floods, drought and hurricanes, increased demand, problems in production or distribution, restrictions on imports or exports, the inability of our vendors to obtain credit, political instability in the countries in which suppliers and distributors are located, the financial instability of suppliers and distributors, suppliers’ or distributors’ failure to meet our standards, product quality issues, inflation, other factors relating to the suppliers and distributors and the countries in which they are located, food safety warnings or advisories or the prospect of such pronouncements or other conditions beyond our control.  A shortage or interruption in the availability of certain food products or supplies could increase costs and limit the availability of products critical to restaurant operations, which in turn could lead to restaurant closures and/or a decrease in sales.  In addition, failure by a principal distributor for our Concepts and/or our Concepts’ franchisees to meet its service requirements could lead to a disruption of service or supply until a new distributor is engaged, and any disruption could have an adverse effect on our business.We may not attain our target development goals, aggressive development could cannibalize existing sales and new restaurants may not be profitable.Our growth strategy depends in large part on our ability to increase our net restaurant count in markets outside the U.S., especially in China and other emerging markets.  The successful development of new units depends in large part on our ability and the ability of our Concepts’ franchisees to open new restaurants and to operate these restaurants profitably.  We cannot guarantee that we, or our Concepts’ franchisees, will be able to achieve our expansion goals or that new restaurants will be operated profitably.  Further, there is no assurance that any new restaurant will produce operating results similar to those of our existing restaurants.  Other risks which could impact our ability to increase our net restaurant count include prevailing economic conditions and our, or our Concepts’ franchisees’, ability to obtain suitable restaurant locations, negotiate acceptable lease or purchase terms for the locations, obtain required permits and approvals in a timely manner, hire and train qualified personnel and meet construction schedules.Expansion into target markets could also be affected by our Concepts’ franchisees’ ability to obtain financing to construct and open new restaurants.  If it becomes more difficult or more expensive for our Concepts’ franchisees to obtain financing to develop new restaurants, the expected growth of our system could slow and our future revenues and operating cash flows could be adversely impacted.In addition, the new restaurants could impact the sales of our existing restaurants nearby.  There can be no assurance that sales cannibalization will not occur or become more significant in the future as we increase our presence in existing markets.Changes in commodity, labor and other operating costs could adversely affect our results of operations.An increase in certain commodity prices, such as food, supply and energy costs, could adversely affect our operating results.  Our operating expenses also include employee wages and benefits and insurance costs (including workers’ compensation, general liability, property and health) which may increase over time.  Such increases could result from government imposition of higher minimum wages or from general economic or competitive conditions, which could affect wage rates.  In addition, significant increases in gasoline prices could result in the imposition of fuel surcharges by our distributors.  Any increase in the prices of the commodities we use or operating expenses we incur could adversely affect our profit margins.  Because our Concepts and their franchisees provide competitively priced food, our ability to pass along increased expenses to our customers is limited.9Our operating results are closely tied to the success of our Concepts’ franchisees and licensees.A significant portion of our restaurants are operated by franchisees and licensees from whom we derive a significant portion of our revenues in the form of royalty payments.  As a result, the success of our business depends in part upon the operational and financial success of our Concepts’ franchisees and licensees.  We have limited control over how our Concepts’ franchisees’ and licensees’ businesses are run, and the inability of franchisees or licensees to operate successfully could adversely affect our operating results through decreased royalty payments.   If franchisees or licensees incur too much debt, if their operating expenses or commodity prices increase or if economic or sales trends deteriorate such that they are unable to operate profitably or repay existing debt, it could result in financial distress, including insolvency or bankruptcy.  If a significant franchisee or licensee or a significant number of our Concepts’ franchisees or licensees become financially distressed, our operating results could be impacted through reduced or delayed royalty payments or increased rent obligations for leased properties on which we are contingently liable.Our success depends substantially on our corporate reputation and on the value and perception of our brands.Our success depends in large part upon our ability and our franchisees’ and licensees’ ability to maintain and enhance the value of our brands and our customers’ connection to our brands.  Brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions on a variety of subjective qualities.  Business incidents, whether isolated or recurring and whether originating from us, our franchisees, licensees or suppliers, can significantly reduce brand value and consumer trust, particularly if the incidents receive considerable publicity or result in litigation.  For example, our brands could be damaged by claims or perceptions about the quality or safety of our products or the quality of our suppliers, regardless of whether such claims or perceptions are true.  Similarly, entities in our supply chain may engage in conduct, including alleged human rights abuses, that damages our or our brands’ reputations.  Any such incident could cause a decline in consumer confidence in, or the perception of, our Concepts and/or our products and decrease the value of our brands as well as consumer demand for our products, which would likely result in lower revenues and profits.  Additionally, our corporate reputation could suffer from a real or perceived failure of corporate governance or misconduct by a company officer or representative.  Our inability or failure to recognize, respond to and effectively manage the accelerated impact of social media could materially adversely impact our business.There has been a marked increase in the use of social media platforms, including weblogs (blogs), social media websites, and other forms of Internet-based communications which allow individuals access to a broad audience of consumers and other interested persons.  Many social media platforms immediately publish the content their subscribers and participants post, often without filters or checks on accuracy of the content posted.  Information posted on such platforms at any time may be adverse to our interests and/or may be inaccurate.  The dissemination of information online could harm our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations, regardless of the information’s accuracy.  The harm may be immediate without affording us an opportunity for redress or correction.Other risks associated with the use of social media include improper disclosure of proprietary information, negative comments about our Concepts, exposure of personally identifiable information, fraud and disclosure of out-of-date information.  The inappropriate use of social media by our customers or employees could increase our costs, lead to litigation or result in negative publicity that could damage our reputation and adversely affect our results.We could be party to litigation that could adversely affect us by increasing our expenses or subjecting us to significant monetary damages and other remedies.We are regularly involved in legal proceedings, which include consumer, employment, tort, intellectual property, breach of contract, securities, derivative and other litigation (see the discussion of Legal Proceedings in Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K).  Plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits often seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of the potential loss relating to such lawsuits may not be accurately estimated.  Regardless of whether any claims against us are valid, or whether we are ultimately held liable, such litigation may be expensive to defend and may divert resources away from our operations and negatively impact reported earnings.  With respect to insured claims, a judgment for monetary damages in excess of any insurance coverage could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.  Any adverse publicity resulting from these allegations may also adversely affect our reputation, which in turn could adversely affect our results.In addition, the restaurant industry has been subject to claims that relate to the nutritional content of food products, as well as claims that the menus and practices of restaurant chains have led to customer health issues, including weight gain and other adverse 10effects.  We may also be subject to these types of claims in the future and, even if we are not, publicity about these matters (particularly directed at the quick service and fast-casual segments of the retail food industry) may harm our reputation and adversely affect our results.Changes in, or noncompliance with, governmental regulations may adversely affect our business operations, growth prospects or financial condition.Our Concepts and their franchisees are subject to numerous laws and regulations around the world. These laws change regularly and are increasingly complex.  For example, we are subject to:•The Americans with Disabilities Act in the U.S. and similar state laws that give civil rights protections to individuals with disabilities in the context of employment, public accommodations and other areas.•The U.S. Fair Labor Standards Act, which governs matters such as minimum wages, overtime and other working conditions, as well as family leave mandates and a variety of similar state laws that govern these and other employment law matters.•Laws and regulations in government-mandated health care benefits such as the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.•Laws and regulations relating to nutritional content, nutritional labeling, product safety and menu labeling.•Laws relating to state and local licensing.•Laws and regulations relating to health, sanitation, food, workplace safety, child labor, including laws prohibiting the use of certain “hazardous equipment” by employees younger than the age of 18 years of age,  and fire safety and prevention.•Laws and regulations relating to union organizing rights and activities.•Laws relating to information security, privacy, cashless payments, and consumer protection.•Environmental regulations.•Federal and state immigration laws and regulations in the U.S.Compliance with new or existing laws and regulations could impact our operations. The compliance costs associated with these laws and regulations could be substantial.  Any failure or alleged failure to comply with these laws or regulations could adversely affect our reputation, international expansion efforts, growth prospects and financial condition or result in, among other things, litigation, revocation of required licenses, governmental investigations or proceedings, administrative enforcement actions, fines and civil and criminal liability.  Publicity relating to any such noncompliance could also harm our reputation and adversely affect our revenues.A broader standard for determining joint employer status may adversely affect our business operations and increase our liabilities.The National Labor Relations Board has recently adopted a new and broader standard for determining when two or more otherwise unrelated employers may be found to be a joint employer of the same employees under the National Labor Relations Act.  If this joint employer liability standard is upheld or adopted by other government agencies, it could cause us or our Concepts to be liable or held responsible for unfair labor practices and other violations, and required to conduct collective bargaining negotiations, regarding employees of totally separate, independent employers, most notably our franchisees.  In such event, our operating expenses may increase as a result of required modifications to our business practices, increased litigation, governmental investigations or proceedings, administrative enforcement actions, fines and civil liability.  Failure to comply with anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws may adversely affect our business operations.The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act and similar laws prohibiting bribery of government officials and other corrupt practices are the subject of increasing scrutiny and enforcement around the world.  Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, agents or other third parties will not take actions in violation of our policies or applicable law, particularly as we expand our operations in emerging markets.  Any such violations or suspected violations could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, including substantial fines and significant investigation costs, and could also materially damage our reputation, brands, international expansion efforts and prospects, business and operating results.  Publicity relating to any noncompliance or alleged noncompliance could also harm our reputation and adversely affect our revenues.Tax matters, including changes in tax rates, disagreements with taxing authorities and imposition of new taxes could impact our results of operations and financial condition.A significant percentage of our profit is earned outside the U.S. and taxed at lower rates than the U.S. statutory rates.  Historically, the cash we generate outside the U.S. has principally been used to fund our international development.  However, if the cash 11generated by our U.S. business is not sufficient to meet our need for cash in the U.S., we may need to repatriate a greater portion of our international earnings to the U.S. in the future.  We are required to record U.S. income tax expense in our financial statements at the point in time when our management determines that we no longer have the ability and intent to indefinitely postpone tax consequences related to those international earnings.  This could cause our worldwide effective tax rate to increase materially. We are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property, withholding and franchise taxes in both the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions.  We are also subject to regular reviews, examinations and audits by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) and other taxing authorities with respect to such income and non-income based taxes inside and outside of the U.S. These reviews could include challenges of our methodologies for transfer pricing.  If the IRS or another taxing authority disagrees with our tax positions, we could face additional tax liability, including interest and penalties.  Payment of such additional amounts upon final settlement or adjudication of any disputes could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position.In addition, we are directly and indirectly affected by new tax legislation and regulation and the interpretation of tax laws and regulations worldwide.  Changes in such legislation, regulation or interpretation could increase our taxes and have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.  This includes potential changes in tax laws or the interpretation of tax laws arising out of the Base Erosion Profit Shifting project initiated by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development.Failure to protect our service marks or other intellectual property could harm our business.We regard our Yum®, KFC®, Pizza Hut® and Taco Bell® service marks, and other service marks and trademarks related to our restaurant businesses, as having significant value and being important to our marketing efforts. We rely on a combination of protections provided by contracts, copyrights, patents, trademarks, service marks and other common law rights, such as trade secret and unfair competition laws, to protect our restaurants and services from infringement. We have registered certain trademarks and service marks in the United States and foreign jurisdictions. However, from time to time we become aware of names and marks identical or confusingly similar to our service marks being used by other persons. Although our policy is to oppose any such infringement, further or unknown unauthorized uses or other misappropriation of our trademarks or service marks could diminish the value of our brands and adversely affect our business. In addition, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our Concepts have or intend to open or franchise a restaurant.  There can be no assurance that these protections will be adequate, and defending or enforcing our service marks and other intellectual property could result in the expenditure of significant resources.Our business may be adversely impacted by general economic conditions.Our results of operations are dependent upon discretionary spending by consumers, which may be affected by general economic conditions globally or in one or more of the markets we serve.  Some of the factors that impact discretionary consumer spending include unemployment, disposable income, the price of gasoline, stock market performance and consumer confidence.  These and other macroeconomic factors could have an adverse effect on our sales, profitability or development plans, which could harm our financial condition and operating results.The retail food industry in which we operate is highly competitive.The retail food industry in which we operate is highly competitive with respect to price and quality of food products, new product development, advertising levels and promotional initiatives, customer service, reputation, restaurant location, and attractiveness and maintenance of properties.  If consumer or dietary preferences change, or our restaurants are unable to compete successfully with other retail food outlets in new and existing markets, our business could be adversely affected.  We also face growing competition as a result of convergence in grocery, convenience, deli and restaurant services, including the offering by the grocery industry of convenient meals, including pizzas and entrees with side dishes.  Competition from delivery aggregators and other food delivery services has also increased in recent years, particularly in urbanized areas.  Increased competition could have an adverse effect on our sales, profitability or development plans, which could harm our financial condition and operating results.  In addition, in the retail food industry, labor is a primary operating cost component.  Competition for qualified employees could also require us to pay higher wages to attract a sufficient number of employees, which could adversely impact our profit margins. We intend to substantially increase our level of debt which would make us more sensitive to the effects of economic downturns and could adversely affect our business.In late 2015, we announced that we intend to return approximately $6.2 billion of capital to shareholders prior to the separation of our China business through share repurchases and/or a special dividend. To finance that return of capital we expect to incur 12significant additional indebtedness, some of which may be secured debt.  This would have the effect of substantially increasing our total leverage.An increase in our leverage could have important potential consequences, including, but not limited to:•increasing our vulnerability to, and reducing our flexibility to plan for and respond to, general adverse economic and industry conditions and changes in our business and the competitive environment;•requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal of, and interest on, indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of such cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividends, share repurchases or other corporate purposes;•increasing our vulnerability to a downgrade of our credit rating, which could adversely affect our cost of funds, liquidity and access to capital markets;•restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures;•increasing our exposure to the risk of increased interest rates insofar as current and future borrowings are subject to variable rates of interest;•making it more difficult for us to repay, refinance or satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt;•limiting our ability to borrow additional funds in the future and increasing the cost of any such borrowing; •imposing restrictive covenants on our operations, which, if not complied with, could result in an event of default, which in turn, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of the applicable debt, and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies; and•increasing our exposure to risks related to fluctuations in foreign currency as we earn profits in a variety of currencies around the world and our debt is or is expected to be denominated in U.S. dollars.There is no assurance that we will generate cash flow from operations or that future debt or equity financings will be available to us to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund other needs. As a result, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. There is no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all. Any inability to generate sufficient cash flow or refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.Risks Related to the Planned Spin-OffThe proposed spin-off of our China business is subject to various risks and uncertainties and may not be completed on the terms or timeline currently contemplated, if at all, and will involve significant time and attention, which could disrupt or adversely affect our business. We have announced our intention to separate YUM's China business from YUM into an independent, publicly-traded company by the end of 2016.  This transaction, which is expected to be a U.S. tax-free spin-off of our China business, is complex in nature, subject to various conditions, and may be affected by unanticipated developments or changes in market, regulatory and certain other conditions.  We expect to file a Registration Statement on Form 10 with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) that will contain detailed information regarding the business proposed to be spun-off.  Completion of the spin-off will be contingent upon a number of factors, including the effectiveness of the Registration Statement, final approval by our Board of Directors, receipt of a tax opinion and other conditions.  For these and other reasons, the spin-off may not be completed as expected by the end of 2016, if at all.Additionally, execution of the proposed spin-off will require significant time and attention from management, which may distract management from the operation of our business and the execution of our other initiatives.  Our employees may also be distracted due to uncertainty about their future roles with each of the separate companies pending the completion of the spin-off.  We may also experience increased difficulties in attracting, retaining and motivating key employees during the pendency of the spin-off and following its completion.  Any such difficulties could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.The proposed spin-off may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits and may adversely affect our business.Even if the proposed spin-off is completed, we may not achieve, or may not achieve in a timely fashion, some or all of the expected benefits of the spin-off and the spin-off may in fact adversely affect our business.  For example, once the China business becomes independent, it may choose to pursue growth opportunities with brands or businesses unrelated to our Concepts, which could divert attention and resources away from the growth of our Concepts in China.In addition, if the spin-off is completed, the Company’s operational and financial profile and the composition of the Company’s revenue will change materially.  There can be no assurance that these changes will yield the benefits currently expected or intended 13or that the combined value of the common stock of the two publicly-traded companies following the completion of the proposed spin-off will be equal to or greater than what the value of our common stock would have been had the proposed spin-off not occurred.The spin-off transactions could result in substantial U.S. tax liability.The spin-off will be conditioned on our receipt of an opinion of outside counsel, in form and substance satisfactory to us, substantially to the effect that, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the spin-off and certain related transactions will qualify under Sections 355 and/or 368 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code.  The opinion will rely on various assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by the new China entity and us which, if inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, would jeopardize the conclusions reached by such counsel in its opinion.  The opinion will not be binding on the IRS or the courts, and there can be no assurance that the IRS or the courts will not challenge the conclusions stated in the opinion or that any such challenge would not prevail.If, notwithstanding receipt of the opinion, the spin-off transaction were determined to be a taxable transaction, we would be treated as having sold shares of the new China entity in a taxable transaction, likely resulting in a significant taxable gain.  In addition, each U.S. holder of our common stock who receives shares of the new China entity in the spin-off transaction would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares of the new China entity received.  That distribution would be taxable to each such stockholder as a dividend to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits.  For each such stockholder, any amount that exceeded our earnings and profits would be treated first as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of such stockholder’s tax basis in our shares of common stock with any remaining amount being taxed as a capital gain.At the time of the spin-off, we will enter into a Tax Matters Agreement with the new China entity.  The Tax Matters Agreement will address which company, YUM or the new China entity, will be responsible for any taxes imposed as a result of the spin-off transaction.The spin-off may be subject to China indirect transfer tax.The China State Administration of Taxation recently issued Bulletin 7 on Income arising from Indirect Transfers of Assets by Non-Resident Enterprises.  Pursuant to Bulletin 7, an "indirect transfer" of People’s Republic of China (PRC) taxable assets, including equity interests in a PRC resident enterprise, by a non-resident enterprise, may be recharacterized and treated as a direct transfer of PRC taxable assets, if such arrangement does not have reasonable commercial purpose and the transferor has avoided payment of PRC enterprise income tax.  As a result, gains derived from such an indirect transfer may be subject to PRC enterprise income tax of 10%.We have evaluated the potential applicability of Bulletin 7 to our plan to separate our China business in a tax free restructuring and believe it is more likely than not that Bulletin 7 does not apply.  We believe that the restructuring has reasonable commercial purpose.However, given how recently Bulletin 7 was promulgated there are significant uncertainties regarding what constitutes a reasonable commercial purpose, how the safe harbor provisions for group restructurings are to be interpreted and how the taxing authorities will ultimately view our planned spin-off.  As a result, our position could be challenged by the tax authorities resulting in a 10% tax assessed on the difference between the fair market value and the tax basis of the separated China business.  As our tax basis in the China business is minimal, the amount of such a tax could be significant and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial condition.If the proposed spin-off is consummated, there may be substantial changes in our stockholder base, which may cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate following the proposed spin-off.Investors holding YUM’s common stock today may hold YUM common stock because of a decision to invest in a company with significant China or emerging markets exposure.  If the proposed spin-off is completed, shares of YUM common stock will represent an investment in a company with less exposure to China, a key emerging market.  This change may not match some holders’ investment strategies, which could cause investors to sell their shares of YUM common stock.  Excessive selling pressure could cause the market price of YUM common stock to decrease following the completion of the proposed spin-off.14Item 1B