ITEM 1A.Risk Factors" -->




    
    
    



    
    ITEM 1A.
    
    
    Risk Factors 





 


     
Risk factors which could cause actual results to differ from
our expectations and which could negatively impact our financial
condition and results of operations are discussed below and
elsewhere in this report. The risks and uncertainties described
below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and
uncertainties not presently known to us or that are currently
not believed to be significant to our business may also affect
our actual results and could harm our business, financial
condition and results of operations. If any of the risks or
uncertainties described below or any additional risks and
uncertainties actually occur, our business, results of
operations and financial condition could be materially and
adversely affected.



RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY



 


    
Our success depends on our ability to effectively develop and
market our products against those of our competitors.


    
We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our present or
future products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by
technological advances by one or more of our present or future
competitors or by other therapies, including orthobiological
therapies. To remain competitive, we must continue to develop
and acquire new products and technologies.


    
In the global markets for reconstructive orthopaedic implants,
trauma products and other orthopaedic products, a limited number
of competitors, including DePuy Orthopaedics, Inc. (a subsidiary
of Johnson & Johnson), Stryker Corporation, Biomet,
Inc., Wright Medical Group, Inc., Synthes, Inc. and
Smith & Nephew plc, compete with us for the majority of
product sales. In the spinal implant category, we compete
globally primarily with Medtronic Sofamor Danek, Inc. (a
subsidiary of Medtronic, Inc.), DePuy Spine (a subsidiary of
Johnson & Johnson), Synthes, Inc., Stryker Corporation
and EBI, L.P. (a subsidiary of Biomet, Inc.). In the dental
reconstructive implant category, we compete primarily with Nobel
Biocare Holding AG, Straumann Holding AG, and Implant
Innovations, Inc. (a subsidiary of Biomet, Inc.). Competition is
primarily on the basis of:





    
    



    • 
    
    technology;



    • 
    
    innovation;



    • 
    
    quality;







 15




Table of Contents





    
    



    ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC.
    2006 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT





 








    
    



    • 
    
    reputation;



    • 
    
    relationships with customers; and



    • 
    
    service.




    
In markets outside of the United States, other factors influence
competition as well, including:





    
    



    • 
    
    local distribution systems;



    • 
    
    complex regulatory environments; and



    • 
    
    differing medical philosophies and product preferences.




    
Our competitors may:





    
    



    • 
    
    have greater financial, marketing and other resources than us;



    • 
    
    respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies;



    • 
    
    undertake more extensive marketing campaigns;



    • 
    
    adopt more aggressive pricing policies; or



    • 
    
    be more successful in attracting potential customers, employees
    and strategic partners.




    
Any of these factors, alone or in combination, could cause us to
have difficulty maintaining or increasing sales of our products.


    
If third-party payors decline to reimburse our customers for
our products or reduce reimbursement levels, the demand for our
products may decline and our ability to sell our products
profitably may be harmed.


    
We sell our products and services to hospitals, doctors,
dentists and other health care providers, all of which receive
reimbursement for the health care services provided to their
patients from third-party payors, such as domestic and
international government programs, private insurance plans and
managed care programs. These third-party payors may deny
reimbursement if they determine that a device used in a
procedure was not in accordance with cost-effective treatment
methods, as determined by the third-party payor, or was used for
an unapproved indication. Third-party payors may also decline to
reimburse for experimental procedures and devices. If our
products are not considered cost-effective by third-party
payors, our customers may not be reimbursed for our products.


    
In addition, third-party payors are increasingly attempting to
contain health care costs by limiting both coverage and the
level of reimbursement for medical products and services. For
example, managed care programs often prescribe only those
orthopaedic recovery products that match a patient as to age,
need for mobility and other parameters in an effort to provide
more cost-effective care. If third-party payors reduce
reimbursement levels to hospitals and other health care
providers for our products, demand for our products may decline
or we may experience pressure to reduce the prices of our
products, which could have a material adverse effect on sales,
financial condition and results of operations.


    
In international markets, where the movement toward health care
reform and the development of managed care are generally not as
advanced as in the United States, we have experienced downward
pressure on product pricing and other effects of health care
reform. In Japan, for example, a government-operated insurance
system reimburses customers for our products. Under this system,
the Japanese government periodically reviews and reduces the
reimbursement levels for products. If the Japanese government
continues to reduce the reimbursement level for orthopaedic
products, our sales, financial condition and results of
operations may be adversely affected.


    
We are subject to cost-containment efforts of healthcare
purchasing organizations, which may have a material adverse
effect on our financial condition and results of operations.


    
Many customers for our products have formed group purchasing
organizations in an effort to contain costs. Group purchasing
organizations negotiate pricing arrangements with medical supply
manufacturers and distributors, and these negotiated prices are
made available to a group purchasing organization’s
affiliated hospitals and other members. If we are not one of the
providers selected by a group purchasing organization,
affiliated hospitals and other members may be less likely to
purchase our products, and if the group purchasing organization
has negotiated a strict compliance contract for another
manufacturer’s products, we may be precluded from making
sales to members of the group purchasing organization for the
duration of the contractual arrangement. Our failure to respond
to the cost-containment efforts of group purchasing
organizations may cause us to lose market share to our
competitors and could have a material adverse effect on our
sales, financial condition and results of operations.


    
We are involved in ongoing investigations by the United
States Department of Justice of companies in the orthopaedics
industry, the results of which may have a material adverse
effect on our sales, financial condition and results of
operations.


    
In March 2005, we received a subpoena and we have received
supplemental requests since that time from the United States
Department of Justice through the United States Attorney’s
Office in Newark, New Jersey, requesting documents and related
information for the period beginning January 1998 related to
consulting contracts, professional service agreements and other
agreements by which we may provide remuneration to orthopaedic
surgeons, including research and other grant agreements. In June
2006, we received a subpoena from the United States Department
of Justice, Antitrust Division, requesting documents for the
period beginning January 2001 through June 2006, pertaining to
an investigation of possible violations of federal criminal law,
including possible violations of the antitrust laws, involving
the manufacture and sale of orthopaedic implant devices. We are
cooperating fully with federal authorities with regard to these
investigations, which we understand involve a number of other
orthopaedic manufacturers as well. If, as a result of these
investigations, we are found to have violated one or more
applicable laws, our business, financial condition and results
of operations could be materially adversely affected. If some of
our existing business practices are challenged as unlawful, we
may have to change those practices, which could have a material
adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
of operations.





 16




Table of Contents





    
    



    ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC.
    2006 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT





 



    
We and our customers are subject to various governmental
regulations and we may incur significant expenses to comply with
these regulations and develop products compatible with these
regulations.


    
The medical devices we design, develop, manufacture and market
are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA and numerous other
Federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. The process
of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a medical device,
particularly from the FDA and certain foreign governmental
authorities, can be costly and time consuming and approvals
might not be granted for future products on a timely basis, if
at all. Delays in receipt of, or failure to obtain, approvals
for future products could result in delayed realization of
product revenues or in substantial additional costs which could
have a material adverse effect on our business or results of
operations.


    
In addition, if we fail to comply with applicable FDA medical
device or other material regulatory requirements, including, for
example, the Quality System Regulation, recordkeeping
regulations, labeling requirements and adverse event reporting
regulations, that failure could result in, among other things:





    
    



    • 
    
    warning letters;



    • 
    
    fines or civil penalties;



    • 
    
    injunctions;



    • 
    
    repairs, replacements or refunds;



    • 
    
    recalls or seizures of products;



    • 
    
    total or partial suspension of production;



    • 
    
    the FDA’s refusal to grant future premarket clearances or
    approvals;



    • 
    
    withdrawals or suspensions of current product
    applications; and



    • 
    
    criminal prosecution.




    
Any of these actions, in combination or alone, could have a
material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and
results of operations.


    
In many of the foreign countries in which we market our
products, we are subject to regulations affecting, among other
things:





    
    



    • 
    
    clinical efficacy;



    • 
    
    product standards;



    • 
    
    packaging requirements;



    • 
    
    labeling requirements;



    • 
    
    import/export restrictions;



    • 
    
    tariff regulations;



    • 
    
    duties; and



    • 
    
    tax requirements.




    
Many of the regulations applicable to our devices and products
in these countries, such as the European Medical Devices
Directive, are similar to those of the FDA. In addition, in many
countries the national health or social security organizations
require our products to be qualified before they can be marketed
with the benefit of reimbursement eligibility. Failure to
receive or delays in the receipt of, relevant foreign
qualifications also could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition and results of operations.


    
As both the FDA and foreign government regulators have become
increasingly stringent, we may be subject to more rigorous
regulation by governmental authorities in the future. Our
products and operations are also often subject to the rules of
industrial standards bodies, such as the International Standards
Organization. If we fail to adequately address any of these
regulations, our business will be harmed.


    
We are subject to health care fraud and abuse regulations
that could require us to change our business practices and
restrict our operations in the future.


    
Our industry is subject to various Federal and state laws
pertaining to health care fraud and abuse, including
anti-kickback laws and physician self-referral laws. Violations
of these laws are punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions,
including, in some instances, fines, imprisonment and, within
the United States, exclusion from participation in government
healthcare programs, including Medicare, Medicaid, Veterans
Administration (VA) health programs and Civilian Health and
Medical Program Uniformed Service (CHAMPUS). The scope and
enforcement of these laws and regulations are uncertain and
subject to rapid change. Because of the far-reaching and
uncertain nature of these laws, we are required to monitor our
practices to remain in compliance with these laws. If we were to
violate one or more of these laws, our business, financial
condition and results of operations could be materially
adversely affected. If there is a change in law, regulation or
administrative or judicial interpretations, some of our existing
business practices could be challenged as unlawful and, as a
result, we may have to change those practices, which could have
a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition
and results of operations.


    
We may incur product liability losses, and insurance coverage
may be inadequate or unavailable to cover these losses.


    
Our business is subject to potential product liability risks
that are inherent in the design, development, manufacture and
marketing of medical devices. Our products are often used in
surgical and intensive care settings. In addition, some of the
medical devices we manufacture and sell are designed to be
implanted in the human body for long periods of time. In the
ordinary course of business, we are the subject of product
liability lawsuits alleging that component failures,
manufacturing flaws, design defects or inadequate disclosure of
product-related risks or product-related information resulted in
an unsafe condition or injury to patients. Product liability
lawsuits and claims, safety alerts or product recalls,
regardless of their ultimate outcome, could have a material
adverse effect on our business and reputation and on our ability
to attract and retain customers.


    
As part of our risk management policy, we maintain third-party
product liability insurance coverage. However, product liability
claims against us may exceed the coverage limits of our
insurance policies or cause us to record a self-insured loss.
Even if any product liability loss is covered by an insurance
policy, these policies may have substantial retentions or
deductibles that provide that we will not receive insurance
proceeds until the losses incurred exceed





 17




Table of Contents





    
    



    ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC.
    2006 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT





 




the amount of those retentions or deductibles. We will be
responsible for paying any losses that are below those
retentions or deductibles. A product liability claim in excess
of applicable insurance could have a material adverse effect on
our business, financial position and results of operations.



RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS



 


    
If we fail to effectively utilize the skills and knowledge of
orthopaedic surgeons, customers may not buy our products and our
revenue and profitability may decline.


    
We maintain professional relationships with a number of
orthopaedic surgeons who assist in product research and
development and advise us on how to satisfy the full range of
surgeon and patient needs. These professionals speak about our
products at medical seminars, assist in the training of other
professionals in the use of our products and provide us with
feedback on the industry’s acceptance of our new products.
The failure of our products to retain the support of orthopaedic
surgeons, who frequently recommend products or are involved in
product selection decisions, or the failure of our new products
to secure and retain similar support from surgeons, could have a
material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and
results of operations.


    
If we fail to retain the independent agents and distributors
upon whom we rely heavily to market our products, customers may
not buy our products and our revenue and profitability may
decline.


    
Our marketing success in the United States and abroad depends
largely upon our agents’ and distributors’ sales and
service expertise in the marketplace. Many of these agents have
developed professional relationships with existing and potential
customers because of their detailed knowledge of products and
instruments. Many commonly provide operating room personnel with
implant and instrument product training as well as product
support in the operating room. A loss of a significant number of
these agents could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition and results of operations. If some
of the business practices of our independent sales agents and
distributors are challenged as unlawful, they may have to change
these practices, which could have a material adverse effect on
our business, financial condition and results of operations.


    
If we do not introduce new products in a timely manner, our
products may become obsolete over time, customers may not buy
our products and our revenue and profitability may decline.


    
Demand for our products may change, in certain cases, in ways we
may not anticipate because of:





    
    



    • 
    
    evolving customer needs;



    • 
    
    changing demographics;



    • 
    
    slowing industry growth rates;



    • 
    
    declines in the reconstructive implant market;



    • 
    
    the introduction of new products and technologies;



    • 
    
    evolving surgical philosophies; and



    • 
    
    evolving industry standards.




    
Without the timely introduction of new products and
enhancements, our products may become obsolete over time. If
that happens, our revenue and operating results would suffer.
The success of our new product offerings will depend on several
factors, including our ability to:





    
    



    • 
    
    properly identify and anticipate customer needs;



    • 
    
    commercialize new products in a timely manner;



    • 
    
    manufacture and deliver instruments and products in sufficient
    volumes on time;



    • 
    
    differentiate our offerings from competitors’ offerings;



    • 
    
    achieve positive clinical outcomes for new products;



    • 
    
    satisfy the increased demands by healthcare payors, providers
    and patients for shorter hospital stays, faster post-operative
    recovery and lower-cost procedures;



    • 
    
    innovate and develop new materials, product designs and surgical
    techniques; and



    • 
    
    provide adequate medical education relating to new products and
    attract key surgeons to advocate these new products.




    
In addition, new materials, product designs and surgical
techniques that we develop may not be accepted quickly, in some
or all markets, because of, among other factors:





    
    



    • 
    
    entrenched patterns of clinical practice;



    • 
    
    the need for regulatory clearance; and



    • 
    
    uncertainty with respect to third-party reimbursement.




    
Moreover, innovations generally require a substantial investment
in research and development before we can determine their
commercial viability and we may not have the financial resources
necessary to fund the production. In addition, even if we are
able to successfully develop enhancements or new generations of
our products, these enhancements or new generations of products
may not produce revenue in excess of the costs of development
and they may be quickly rendered obsolete by changing customer
preferences or the introduction by our competitors of products
embodying new technologies or features.


    
We conduct a significant amount of our sales activity outside
of the United States, which subjects us to additional business
risks and may cause our profitability to decline due to
increased costs.


    
Because we sell our products in more than 100 countries,
our business is subject to risks associated with doing business
internationally. In 2006, we derived approximately
$1,532.9 million, or 44% of our total revenue, from sales
of our products outside of the United States. We intend to
continue to pursue growth opportunities in sales
internationally, which could expose us to additional risks
associated with international sales and operations. Our
international operations are, and will continue to be, subject
to a number of risks and potential costs, including:





    
    



    • 
    
    changes in foreign medical reimbursement policies and programs;



    • 
    
    unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements;



    • 
    
    differing local product preferences and product requirements;



    • 
    
    fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates;



    • 
    
    diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries
    outside of the United States;







 18




Table of Contents





    
    



    ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC.
    2006 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT





 








    
    



    • 
    
    trade protection measures and import or export licensing
    requirements;



    • 
    
    difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations;



    • 
    
    labor force instability;



    • 
    
    differing labor regulations;



    • 
    
    potentially negative consequences from changes in tax
    laws; and



    • 
    
    political and economic instability.




    
Any of these factors may, individually or as a group, have a
material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and
results of operations.


    
We are subject to risks arising from currency exchange rate
fluctuations, which can increase our costs and may cause our
profitability to decline.


    
A substantial portion of our foreign generated revenues are
generated in Europe and Japan. The United States dollar value of
our foreign-generated revenues varies with currency exchange
rate fluctuations. Significant increases in the value of the
United States dollar relative to the Euro or the Japanese Yen,
as well as other currencies, could have a material adverse
effect on our results of operations. We address currency risk
management through regular operating and financing activities,
and on a limited basis, through the use of derivative financial
instruments. The derivative financial instruments we enter into
are in the form of foreign exchange forward contracts with major
financial institutions. The forward contracts are designed to
hedge anticipated foreign currency transactions, primarily
intercompany sale and purchase transactions, for periods
consistent with commitments. Realized and unrealized gains and
losses on these contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are
temporarily recorded in other comprehensive income, then
recognized in earnings when the hedged item affects net earnings.


    
We may fail to adequately protect our proprietary technology
and other intellectual property, which would allow competitors
or others to take advantage of our research and development
efforts.


    
Our long-term success largely depends on our ability to market
technologically competitive products. If we fail to obtain or
maintain adequate intellectual property protection, we may not
be able to prevent third parties from using our proprietary
technologies. Also, our currently pending or future patent
applications may not result in issued patents. In the United
States, patent applications are confidential for 18 months
following their filing, and because third parties may have filed
patent applications for technology covered by our pending patent
applications without our being aware of those applications, our
patent applications may not have priority over patent
applications of others. In addition, our issued patents may not
contain claims sufficiently broad to protect us against third
parties with similar technologies or products, or provide us
with any competitive advantage. If a third party initiates
litigation regarding our patents, our collaborators’
patents, or those patents for which we have license rights, and
is successful, a court could declare our patents invalid or
unenforceable or limit the scope of coverage of those patents.


    
The United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) and
the courts have not consistently treated the breadth of claims
allowed or interpreted in orthopaedic reconstructive implant and
biotechnology patents. If the USPTO or the courts begin to allow
or interpret claims more broadly, the incidence and cost of
patent interference proceedings and the risk of infringement
litigation will likely increase. On the other hand, if the USPTO
or the courts begin to allow or interpret claims more narrowly,
the value of our proprietary rights may be reduced. Any changes
in, or unexpected interpretations of, the patent laws may
adversely affect our ability to enforce our patent position.


    
In addition, intellectual property rights may be unavailable or
limited in some foreign countries, which could make it easier
for competitors to capture market position. Competitors may also
capture market share from us by designing products that mirror
the capabilities of our products or technology without
infringing our intellectual property rights. If we do not obtain
sufficient international protection for our intellectual
property, our competitiveness in international markets could be
impaired, which would limit our growth and future revenue.


    
We also rely upon trade secrets, proprietary know-how, and
continuing technological innovation to remain competitive. We
attempt to protect this information with security measures,
including the use of confidentiality agreements with our
employees, consultants, and corporate collaborators. These
individuals may breach these agreements and any remedies
available to us may be insufficient to compensate our damages.
Furthermore, our trade secrets, know-how and other technology
may otherwise become known or be independently discovered by our
competitors.


    
We may be subject to intellectual property litigation and
infringement claims, which could cause us to incur significant
expenses or prevent us from selling our products.


    
A successful claim of patent or other intellectual property
infringement against us could adversely affect our growth and
profitability, in some cases materially. From time to time, we
receive notices from third parties of potential infringement and
receive claims of potential infringement. We may be unaware of
intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of
our technology. If someone claims that our products infringed
their intellectual property rights, any resulting litigation
could be costly and time consuming and would divert the
attention of management and key personnel from other business
issues. The complexity of the technology involved and the
uncertainty of intellectual property litigation increase these
risks. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might
require us to enter into costly royalty or license agreements.
However, we may be unable to obtain royalty or license
agreements on terms acceptable to us or at all. We also may be
subject to significant damages or an injunction preventing us
from manufacturing, selling or using some of our products in the
event of a successful claim of patent or other intellectual
property infringement. Any of these adverse consequences could
have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition and results of operations.





 19




Table of Contents





    
    



    ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC.
    2006 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT





 



    
We may complete additional acquisitions, which could increase
our costs or liabilities or be disruptive.


    
We intend to continue to look for additional strategic
acquisitions. We may not be able to complete additional
acquisitions or to integrate successfully any acquired
businesses without substantial expense, delay or other
operational or financial problems. Acquiring and integrating new
businesses involves risk, including the following:





    
    



    • 
    
    we may need to divert more management resources to integration
    than we planned, which may adversely affect our ability to
    pursue other more profitable activities;



    • 
    
    the difficulties of integration may be increased if we need to
    integrate geographically separated organizations, personnel with
    disparate business backgrounds and companies with different
    corporate cultures;



    • 
    
    we may not eliminate as many redundant costs as we anticipated
    in selecting our acquisition candidates; and



    • 
    
    one or more of our acquisition candidates also may have
    liabilities or adverse operating issues that we failed to
    discover through our diligence prior to the acquisition.




    
If we are unable to form strategic alliances, or if our
strategic alliances fail to achieve their objectives, our
operating results will be negatively impacted.


    
Several of our strategic initiatives involve alliances with
other orthopaedic and biotechnology companies. These include our
agreement with Revivicor, Inc. relating to orthopaedic tissue
technology, our collaboration with ISTO Technologies, Inc.
relating to regenerative cartilage technology and our
distribution agreement with Heraeus relating to orthopaedic bone
cement products. The success of these and similar arrangements
is largely dependent on technology and other intellectual
property contributed by our strategic partners or the resources,
efforts, and skills of these partners. Disputes and difficulties
in such relationships are common, often due to conflicting
priorities or conflicts of interest. Merger and acquisition
activity may exacerbate these conflicts. The benefits of these
alliances are reduced or eliminated when strategic partners:





    
    



    • 
    
    terminate the agreements or limit our access to the underlying
    intellectual property;



    • 
    
    fail to devote financial or other resources to the alliances and
    thereby hinder or delay development, manufacturing or
    commercialization activities;



    • 
    
    fail to successfully develop, manufacture or commercialize any
    products; or



    • 
    
    fail to maintain the financial resources necessary to continue
    financing their portion of the development, manufacturing, or
    commercialization costs or their own operations.




    
Furthermore, under some of our strategic alliances, we may make
milestone payments well in advance of commercialization of
products with no assurance that we will ever recoup these
payments. We also may make equity investments in our strategic
partners. These investments may decline in value and result in
our incurring financial statement charges in the future.


    
If we are unable to timely complete our search for a new
Chief Executive Officer and successfully transition to new
leadership, our business could be adversely affected.


    
In November 2006, J. Raymond Elliott, our Chairman, President
and Chief Executive Officer, informed our Board of Directors
that he plans to retire from his positions as President and
Chief Executive Officer in the first half of 2007, assuming a
successor CEO has been named. He will remain as Chairman through
at least November 2007. Our Board of Directors, with the
assistance of Spencer Stuart, a global executive recruiting
firm, has begun a search for a successor, which includes both
internal and external candidates. We cannot assure you when we
will find a suitable candidate for this position and what
effect, if any, a new CEO may have on our business and our
ability to retain our senior executives and other key
scientific, technical, sales, marketing and other personnel. The
loss of the services of such senior executives or key personnel
or any general instability in the composition of our senior
management team could have a negative impact on our ability to
execute our business and operating strategies. Once we hire a
new CEO, our success will be dependent upon his or her ability
to gain proficiency in leading our company; his or her ability
to implement or adapt our corporate strategies and initiatives
and his or her ability to develop key professional
relationships, including relationships with our team members,
the independent distributors who market our products, the
orthopaedic surgeons who assist and advise us and our key
suppliers and other business partners.


    
We depend on a limited number of suppliers for some key raw
materials and outsourced activities.


    
We use a number of suppliers for raw materials we need to
manufacture our products and to outsource some key manufacturing
activities. These suppliers must provide the materials and
perform the activities to our standards for us to meet our
quality and regulatory requirements. Some key raw materials and
outsourced activities can only be obtained from a single source
or a limited number of sources. A prolonged disruption or other
inability to obtain these materials or activities could
materially and adversely affect our ability to satisfy demand
for our products, which could have a material adverse effect on
our business, financial condition and results of operations.


    
Our future profitability may be affected by changes to our
product category and region sales mix.


    
Reconstructive implants produce the highest operating profit
margins among our product categories. These products accounted
for approximately 84 percent of 2006 net sales. Sales
in our Americas region accounted for approximately
60 percent of 2006 net sales. Sales in the Americas
region produce the highest operating profit margins in the
geographic markets in which we operate. While we expect net
sales of reconstructive implants and net sales in the Americas
region to remain strong, changes to our product category mix or
our region sales mix could adversely affect our future
profitability.






ITEM 1B