ITEM 1A.
    
    
    
    Risk Factors
    





    




 


    Risk factors which could cause actual results to differ from
    our expectations and which could negatively impact our financial
    condition and results of operations are discussed below and
    elsewhere in this report. The risks and uncertainties described
    below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and
    uncertainties not presently known to us or that are currently
    not believed to be significant to our business may also affect
    our actual results and could harm our business, financial
    condition and results of operations. If any of the risks or
    uncertainties described below or any additional risks and
    uncertainties actually occur, our business, results of  


 

 





 


    13




Table of Contents








    
    



        ZIMMER
    HOLDINGS, INC.
    
        
    2009
    FORM 10-K
    ANNUAL REPORT
    








    operations and financial condition could be materially and
    adversely affected.


 



    RISKS RELATED TO
    OUR BUSINESS




 


    If we fail to comply with the terms of the Corporate
    Integrity Agreement we entered into in September 2007, we may be
    subject to exclusion from federal healthcare programs.


 


    As previously reported, in September 2007 we settled an
    investigation conducted by the United States Attorney’s
    Office for the District of New Jersey (U.S. Attorney) into
    financial relationships between major orthopaedic manufacturers
    and consulting orthopaedic surgeons. As part of that settlement,
    we entered into a Corporate Integrity Agreement (CIA) with the
    Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and
    Human Services (OIG-HHS). A copy of the CIA is filed as an
    exhibit to this report. If we do not comply with the terms of
    the CIA, we could be subject to exclusion by OIG-HHS from
    participation in federal healthcare programs, including Medicaid
    and Medicare.


 


    We could be subject to further governmental investigations or
    actions by other third parties based on allegations of
    wrongdoing similar to those made by the U.S. Attorney.


 


    Our settlement with the U.S. government does not preclude
    other governmental agencies or state authorities from conducting
    investigations or instituting proceedings based on allegations
    of wrongdoing similar to those made by the U.S. Attorney.
    As previously disclosed, we are cooperating with the
    U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the
    U.S. Department of Justice with regard to an ongoing
    investigation into potential violations of the Foreign Corrupt
    Practices Act in the sale of medical devices in a number of
    foreign countries by companies in the medical device industry.
    We are also cooperating with investigative demands made by two
    state attorneys general. While we believe that the pending state
    investigations are not likely to have a material adverse effect
    on our business or financial condition, similar investigations
    by other states or governmental agencies are possible. We cannot
    assure that the costs of defending or resolving those
    investigations or proceedings would not have a material adverse
    effect on our financial condition, results of operations and
    cash flows.


 


    Our temporary suspension of the U.S. marketing and
    distribution of one of our hip products has adversely affected
    sales growth, resulted in claims and may adversely affect our
    ability to compete in the hip resurfacing market in the U.S.


 


    As previously reported, we temporarily suspended the marketing
    and distribution of our Durom Acetabular Component
    (Durom Cup) in the U.S. in July 2008. Although we
    resumed U.S. marketing and distribution in August 2008, we
    believe the effects of this action had a negative impact on our
    hip product sales growth through 2009 and may continue to have a
    negative impact in 2010.


 


    Following our action, product liability lawsuits and other
    claims were asserted against us and additional similar claims
    may be asserted. In addition, our entry into the U.S. hip
    resurfacing market has been delayed as the Durom Cup had
    been integral to our plans for entry into that market.


 


    If we fail to retain the independent agents and distributors
    upon whom we rely heavily to market our products, customers may
    not buy our products and our revenue and profitability may
    decline.


 


    Our marketing success in the United States and abroad depends
    significantly upon our agents’ and distributors’ sales
    and service expertise in the marketplace. Many of these agents
    have developed professional relationships with existing and
    potential customers because of the agents’ detailed
    knowledge of products and instruments. A loss of a significant
    number of these agents could have a material adverse effect on
    our business and results of operations.


 


    If we do not introduce new products in a timely manner, our
    products may become obsolete over time, customers may not buy
    our products and our revenue and profitability may decline.


 


    Demand for our products may change, in certain cases, in ways we
    may not anticipate because of:





    
    



        • 

        evolving customer needs;




        • 

        changing demographics;




        • 

        slowing industry growth rates;




        • 

        declines in the reconstructive implant market;




        • 

        the introduction of new products and technologies;




        • 

        evolving surgical philosophies; and




        • 

        evolving industry standards.





 


    Without the timely introduction of new products and
    enhancements, our products may become obsolete over time. If
    that happens, our revenue and operating results would suffer.
    The success of our new product offerings will depend on several
    factors, including our ability to:





    
    



        • 

        properly identify and anticipate customer needs;




        • 

        commercialize new products in a timely manner;




        • 

        manufacture and deliver instruments and products in sufficient
    volumes on time;




        • 

        differentiate our offerings from competitors’ offerings;




        • 

        achieve positive clinical outcomes for new products;




        • 

        satisfy the increased demands by healthcare payors, providers
    and patients for shorter hospital stays, faster post-operative
    recovery and lower-cost procedures;




        • 

        innovate and develop new materials, product designs and surgical
    techniques; and




        • 

        provide adequate medical education relating to new products.





 


    In addition, new materials, product designs and surgical
    techniques that we develop may not be accepted quickly, in some
    or all markets, because of, among other factors:





    
    



        • 

        entrenched patterns of clinical practice;




        • 

        the need for regulatory clearance; and




        • 

        uncertainty with respect to third-party reimbursement.





 


    Moreover, innovations generally require a substantial investment
    in research and development before we can determine their
    commercial viability and we may not have the financial resources
    necessary to fund the production. In addition, even if we are
    able to successfully develop enhancements or new generations of
    our products, these


 

 





 


    14




Table of Contents








    
    



        ZIMMER
    HOLDINGS, INC.
    
        
    2009
    FORM 10-K
    ANNUAL REPORT
    








    enhancements or new generations of products may not produce
    revenue in excess of the costs of development and they may be
    quickly rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences or
    the introduction by our competitors of products embodying new
    technologies or features.


 


    We conduct a significant amount of our sales activity outside
    of the United States, which subjects us to additional business
    risks and may cause our profitability to decline due to
    increased costs.


 


    We sell our products in more than 100 countries and derive more
    than 40 percent of our net sales from outside the United
    States. We intend to continue to pursue growth opportunities in
    sales internationally, which could expose us to additional risks
    associated with international sales and operations. Our
    international operations are, and will continue to be, subject
    to a number of risks and potential costs, including:





    
    



        • 

        changes in foreign medical reimbursement policies and programs;




        • 

        unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements;




        • 

        differing local product preferences and product requirements;




        • 

        fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates;




        • 

        diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries
    outside of the United States;




        • 

        trade protection measures and import or export requirements that
    may prevent us from shipping products to a particular market and
    may increase our operating costs;




        • 

        foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from
    repatriating cash earned in countries outside the United States;




        • 

        complex data privacy requirements and labor relations laws;




        • 

        extraterritorial effects of U.S. laws such as the Foreign
    Corrupt Practices Act;




        • 

        difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations;




        • 

        labor force instability;




        • 

        potentially negative consequences from changes in tax
    laws; and




        • 

        political and economic instability.





 


    Violations of foreign laws or regulations could result in fines,
    criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees,
    prohibitions on the conduct of our business and damage to our
    reputation.


 


    We are subject to risks arising from currency exchange rate
    fluctuations, which can increase our costs, cause our
    profitability to decline and expose us to counterparty risks.


 


    A substantial portion of our foreign revenues are generated in
    Europe and Japan. The United States dollar value of our
    foreign-generated revenues varies with currency exchange rate
    fluctuations. Significant increases in the value of the United
    States dollar relative to the Euro or the Japanese Yen, as well
    as other currencies, could have a material adverse effect on our
    results of operations. Although we address currency risk
    management through regular operating and financing activities,
    and, on a limited basis, through the use of derivative financial
    instruments, those actions may not prove to be fully effective.


 


    We may fail to adequately protect our proprietary technology
    and other intellectual property, which would allow competitors
    or others to take advantage of our research and development
    efforts.


 


    Our long-term success largely depends on our ability to market
    technologically competitive products. If we fail to obtain or
    maintain adequate intellectual property protection, we may not
    be able to prevent third parties from using our proprietary
    technologies. Also, our currently pending or future patent
    applications may not result in issued patents, and issued
    patents are subject to claims concerning priority, scope and
    other issues.


 


    The United States Patent and Trademark Office and the courts
    have not consistently treated the breadth of claims allowed or
    interpreted in orthopaedic reconstructive implant and
    biotechnology patents. Future changes in, or unexpected
    interpretations of, the patent laws may adversely affect our
    ability to enforce our patent position.


 


    In addition, intellectual property rights may be unavailable or
    of limited effect in some foreign countries. If we do not obtain
    sufficient international protection for our intellectual
    property, our competitiveness in international markets could be
    impaired, which could limit our growth and revenue.


 


    We also attempt to protect our trade secrets, proprietary
    know-how and continuing technological innovation with security
    measures, including the use of confidentiality agreements with
    our employees, consultants and collaborators. These measures may
    prove to be ineffective and any remedies available to us may be
    insufficient to compensate our damages.


 


    We may be subject to intellectual property litigation and
    infringement claims, which could cause us to incur significant
    expenses or prevent us from selling our products.


 


    A successful claim of patent or other intellectual property
    infringement against us could adversely affect our growth and
    profitability, in some cases materially. From time to time, we
    receive notices from third parties of potential infringement and
    receive claims of potential infringement. We may be unaware of
    intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of
    our technology. If someone claims that our products infringed
    their intellectual property rights, any resulting litigation
    could be costly and time consuming and would divert the
    attention of management and key personnel from other business
    issues. If we were to lose such litigation involving material
    intellectual property rights, we may be unable to manufacture,
    sell or use some of our products.


 


    We may make additional acquisitions or enter into strategic
    alliances that could increase our costs or liabilities or be
    disruptive.


 


    We intend to continue to look for additional strategic
    acquisitions of other businesses that are complementary to our
    businesses and other companies with whom we could form strategic
    alliances or enter into other arrangements to develop or exploit
    intellectual property rights. These activities involve risks,
    including the following:





    
    



        • 
    
    we may need to divert more management resources to integration
    than we planned, which may adversely affect our ability to
    pursue other more profitable activities;





 

 





 


    15




Table of Contents








    
    



        ZIMMER
    HOLDINGS, INC.
    
        
    2009
    FORM 10-K
    ANNUAL REPORT
    










    
    



        • 

        the difficulties of integrating acquired businesses may be
    increased if we need to integrate geographically separated
    organizations, personnel with disparate business backgrounds and
    companies with different corporate cultures;




        • 

        we may not recognize expected cost savings or the anticipated
    benefits of acquisitions or strategic alliances;




        • 

        our acquisition candidates or strategic partners may have
    unexpected liabilities or prove unable to meet their obligations
    to us or the joint venture; and




        • 

        the priorities of our strategic partners may prove incompatible
    with ours.





 


    We depend on a limited number of suppliers for some key raw
    materials and outsourced activities.


 


    We use a number of suppliers for raw materials that we need to
    manufacture our products and to outsource some key manufacturing
    activities. These suppliers must provide the materials and
    perform the activities to our standards for us to meet our
    quality and regulatory requirements. Some key raw materials and
    outsourced activities can only be obtained from a single source
    or a limited number of sources. A prolonged disruption or other
    inability to obtain these materials or outsource key
    manufacturing activities could materially and adversely affect
    our ability to satisfy demand for our products.


 


    We are subject to putative stockholder class action lawsuits
    that could be costly to defend and distracting to management.


 


    We and a number of our related parties are defending putative
    stockholder class action lawsuits alleging violations of the
    securities laws or violations of the federal Employee Retirement
    Income Security Act of 1974 arising out of trading or ownership
    of our common stock. We believe these lawsuits are without
    merit, and we intend to defend them vigorously. We may incur
    significant expenses associated with the defense of these
    lawsuits, however, and the necessary participation of our
    executive officers could detract from their ability to devote
    their full time and attention to our business operations.


 



    RISKS RELATED TO
    OUR INDUSTRY




 


    The ongoing investigation by the U.S. Securities and
    Exchange Commission and the U.S. Department of Justice
    regarding potential violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices
    Act in the sale of medical devices in a number of foreign
    countries by companies in the medical device industry could have
    a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition
    and cash flows.


 


    We are cooperating fully with the U.S. Securities and
    Exchange Commission and the U.S. Department of Justice with
    regard to an ongoing investigation of potential violations of
    the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act in the sale of medical devices
    in a number of foreign countries by companies in the medical
    device industry. Although we have adopted policies and
    procedures designed to prevent improper payments and we train
    our employees, distributors and others concerning these issues,
    we cannot assure that violations of these requirements will not
    occur. If we are found to have violated the Foreign Corrupt
    Practices Act, we may face sanctions including fines, criminal
    penalties, disgorgement of profits and suspension or debarment
    of our ability to contract with governmental agencies or receive
    export licenses.


 


    The impact of healthcare reform in the U.S. on us is
    uncertain.


 


    There is increasing emphasis within the federal government to
    reform healthcare in the U.S., though it is uncertain whether
    new legislation will be enacted. To the extent that the number
    of uninsured or underinsured patients is reduced, demand for our
    products could marginally increase. However, efforts to pay for
    healthcare reform through a proposed new tax on medical device
    companies and efforts to contain healthcare costs, directly
    through pricing or reimbursement controls or indirectly by
    government-sponsored healthcare insurance, could have a material
    adverse effect on our sales and results of operations.
    Accordingly, the impact of healthcare reform on the medical
    device industry in general or us in particular remains uncertain.


 


    We are subject to healthcare fraud and abuse regulations on
    an ongoing basis that could require us to change our business
    practices and restrict our operations in the future.


 


    Our industry is subject to various federal and state laws
    pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including false claims
    laws, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, similar state laws and
    physician self-referral laws. Violations of these laws are
    punishable by criminal
    and/or civil
    sanctions, including, in some instances, fines, imprisonment
    and, within the United States, exclusion from participation in
    government healthcare programs, including Medicare, Medicaid and
    Veterans Administration (VA) health programs. The interpretation
    and enforcement of these laws and regulations are uncertain and
    subject to rapid change.


 


    If third-party payors decline to reimburse our customers for
    our products or reduce reimbursement levels, the demand for our
    products may decline and our ability to sell our products
    profitably may be harmed.


 


    We sell our products and services to hospitals, doctors,
    dentists and other healthcare providers, all of which receive
    reimbursement for the healthcare services provided to their
    patients from third-party payors, such as domestic and
    international government programs, private insurance plans and
    managed care programs. These third-party payors may deny
    reimbursement if they determine that a device used in a
    procedure was not in accordance with cost-effective treatment
    methods, as determined by the third-party payor, or was used for
    an unapproved indication. Third-party payors may also decline to
    reimburse for experimental procedures and devices. If our
    products are not considered cost-effective by third-party
    payors, our customers may not be reimbursed for our products.


 


    In addition, third-party payors are increasingly attempting to
    contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level
    of reimbursement for medical products and services. If
    third-party payors reduce reimbursement levels to hospitals and
    other healthcare providers for our products, demand for our
    products may decline, or we may experience pressure to


 

 





 


    16




Table of Contents








    
    



        ZIMMER
    HOLDINGS, INC.
    
        
    2009
    FORM 10-K
    ANNUAL REPORT
    








    reduce the prices of our products, which could have a material
    adverse effect on our sales and results of operations.


 


    We have also experienced downward pressure on product pricing
    and other effects of healthcare reform in our international
    markets. If key participants in government healthcare systems
    reduce the reimbursement levels for our products, our sales and
    results of operations may be adversely affected.


 


    The ongoing cost-containment efforts of healthcare purchasing
    organizations may have a material adverse effect on our results
    of operations.


 


    Many customers for our products have formed group purchasing
    organizations in an effort to contain costs. Group purchasing
    organizations negotiate pricing arrangements with medical supply
    manufacturers and distributors, and these negotiated prices are
    made available to a group purchasing organization’s
    affiliated hospitals and other members. If we are not one of the
    providers selected by a group purchasing organization,
    affiliated hospitals and other members may be less likely to
    purchase our products, and, if the group purchasing organization
    has negotiated a strict compliance contract for another
    manufacturer’s products, we may be precluded from making
    sales to members of the group purchasing organization for the
    duration of the contractual arrangement. Our failure to respond
    to the cost-containment efforts of group purchasing
    organizations may cause us to lose market share to our
    competitors and could have a material adverse effect on our
    sales and results of operations.


 


    Our success depends on our ability to effectively develop and
    market our products against those of our competitors.


 


    We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our present or
    future products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by
    technological advances by one or more of our present or future
    competitors or by other therapies, including biological
    therapies. To remain competitive, we must continue to develop
    and acquire new products and technologies. Competition is
    primarily on the basis of:





    
    



        • 

        technology;




        • 

        innovation;




        • 

        quality;




        • 

        reputation; and




        • 

        customer service.





 


    In markets outside of the United States, other factors influence
    competition as well, including:





    
    



        • 

        local distribution systems;




        • 

        complex regulatory environments; and




        • 

        differing medical philosophies and product preferences.





 


    Our competitors may:





    
    



        • 

        have greater financial, marketing and other resources than us;




        • 

        respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies;




        • 

        undertake more extensive marketing campaigns;




        • 

        adopt more aggressive pricing policies; or




        • 

        be more successful in attracting potential customers, employees
    and strategic partners.





 


    Any of these factors, alone or in combination, could cause us to
    have difficulty maintaining or increasing sales of our products.


 


    We and our customers are subject to various governmental
    regulations relating to the manufacturing, labeling and
    marketing of our products, and we may incur significant expenses
    to comply with these regulations and develop products compatible
    with these regulations.


 


    The medical devices we design, develop, manufacture and market
    are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA and numerous other
    federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. The process
    of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a medical device can
    be costly and time consuming and approvals might not be granted
    for future products on a timely basis, if at all. Delays in
    receipt of, or failure to obtain, approvals for future products
    could result in delayed realization of product revenues or in
    substantial additional costs.


 


    In addition, if we fail to comply with applicable material
    regulatory requirements, including, for example, the Quality
    System Regulation, recordkeeping regulations, labeling
    requirements and adverse event reporting regulations, we may be
    subject to a range of sanctions including:





    
    



        • 

        warning letters;




        • 

        fines or civil penalties;




        • 

        injunctions;




        • 

        repairs, replacements or refunds;




        • 

        recalls or seizures of products;




        • 

        total or partial suspension of production;




        • 

        the FDA’s refusal to grant future premarket clearances or
    approvals;




        • 

        withdrawals or suspensions of current product
    applications; and




        • 

        criminal prosecution.





 


    Our products and operations are also often subject to the rules
    of industrial standards bodies, such as the International
    Standards Organization. If we fail to adequately address any of
    these regulations, our business will be harmed.


 


    We may incur product liability losses, and insurance coverage
    may be inadequate or unavailable to cover these losses.


 


    In the ordinary course of business, we are the subject of
    product liability lawsuits alleging that component failures,
    manufacturing flaws, design defects or inadequate disclosure of
    product-related risks or product-related information resulted in
    an unsafe condition or injury to patients. Product liability
    lawsuits and claims, safety alerts or product recalls,
    regardless of their ultimate outcome, could have a material
    adverse effect on our business and reputation and on our ability
    to attract and retain customers.


 


    Although we maintain third-party product liability insurance
    coverage, it is possible that claims against us may exceed the
    coverage limits of our insurance policies or cause us to record
    a self-insured loss. Even if any product liability loss is
    covered by an insurance policy, these policies typically have
    substantial retentions or deductibles that we are responsible
    for. Product liability claims in excess of applicable


 

 





 


    17




Table of Contents








    
    



        ZIMMER
    HOLDINGS, INC.
    
        
    2009
    FORM 10-K
    ANNUAL REPORT
    








    insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business,
    financial condition and results of operations.



 







    
    
    



    
    ITEM 1B