Item 1A — Risk Factors — RISKS
    RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS” for more information about our
    obligations under these agreements. We are continuing to enhance
    our Corporate Compliance Program and are applying these
    enhancements to all of our businesses on a global basis. We are
    monitoring our practices on an ongoing basis to better ensure
    that we have proper controls in place to comply with the laws
    referenced above. Violations of these laws are punishable by
    criminal
    and/or civil
    sanctions, including, in some instances, fines, imprisonment
    and, within the United States, exclusion from participation in
    government healthcare programs, including Medicare, Medicaid and
    Veterans Administration (VA) health programs.


 


    Our facilities and operations are also subject to complex
    federal, state, local, and foreign environmental and
    occupational safety laws and regulations, including those
    relating to discharges of substances in the air, water and land,
    the handling, storage and disposal of wastes and the cleanup of
    properties by pollutants. We do not expect that the ongoing
    costs of compliance with these environmental requirements will
    have a material impact on our consolidated earnings, capital
    expenditures or competitive position.


 



    COMPETITION




 


    The orthopaedics industry is highly competitive. In the global
    markets for reconstructive implants, trauma and orthopaedic
    surgical products, our major competitors include: DePuy
    Orthopaedics, Inc. (a subsidiary of Johnson &
    Johnson), Stryker Corporation, Biomet, Inc., Synthes, Inc.,
    Smith & Nephew plc, Wright Medical Group, Inc. and
    Tornier Inc.


 


    In the Americas geographic segment, we and DePuy Orthopaedics,
    Inc., Stryker Corporation, Biomet, Inc., Smith &
    Nephew, Inc. (a subsidiary of Smith & Nephew plc),
    Wright Medical Group, Inc. and Synthes, Inc., account for a
    large majority of the total reconstructive and trauma implant
    sales.


 


    In the Asia Pacific market for reconstructive implant and trauma
    products, we compete primarily with DePuy Orthopaedics, Inc.,
    Stryker Corporation, Synthes, Inc. and Smith & Nephew
    plc, as well as regional companies, including Japan Medical
    Materials Corporation and Japan Medical Dynamic Marketing, Inc.
    Factors, such as the dealer system,

 

 





 


    11




Table of Contents





    ZIMMER
    HOLDINGS,
    INC.                                                                                                                                                              2007

    FORM 10-K
    ANNUAL REPORT
    






    complex regulatory environments and the accompanying inability
    to compete on price, make it difficult for smaller companies,
    particularly those that are non-regional, to compete effectively
    with the market leaders in the Asia Pacific region.


 


    The European reconstructive implant and trauma product markets
    are more fragmented than the Americas or the Asia Pacific
    segments. The variety of philosophies held by European surgeons
    regarding hip reconstruction, for example, has fostered the
    existence of many regional European companies, including Mathys
    AG and Waldemar LINK GmbH & Co. KG, which compete with
    us in addition to the global competitors. Today most hip
    implants sold in Europe are products developed specifically for
    Europe, although global products are gaining acceptance.
    Therefore, we will continue to develop and produce specially
    tailored products to meet specific European needs.


 


    In the spinal implant category, we compete globally primarily
    with Medtronic Sofamor Danek, Inc. (a subsidiary of Medtronic,
    Inc.), DePuy Spine (a subsidiary of Johnson &
    Johnson), Synthes, Inc., Stryker Corporation and EBI, L.P., now
    operating as Biomet Trauma and Biomet Spine (a subsidiary of
    Biomet, Inc.).


 


    In the dental reconstructive implant category, we compete
    primarily with Nobel Biocare Holding AG, Straumann Holding AG,
    and Implant Innovations, Inc. (a subsidiary of Biomet, Inc.).


 


    Competition within the industry is primarily based on
    technology, innovation, quality, reputation and customer
    service. A key factor in our continuing success in the future
    will be our ability to develop new products and improve existing
    products and technologies. Where possible, we will continue to
    seek patent, trademark and other intellectual property
    protection concerning the surgical techniques, materials,
    technologies and products we design and develop.


 



    MANUFACTURING AND
    RAW MATERIALS




 


    We manufacture substantially all of our products at eight
    locations including Warsaw, Indiana; Winterthur, Switzerland;
    Ponce, Puerto Rico; Dover, Ohio; Statesville, North Carolina;
    Carlsbad, California; Parsippany, New Jersey; and Etupes,
    France. In February 2008, we announced plans to open a new
    manufacturing facility in Shannon, Ireland.


 


    We believe that our manufacturing facilities set industry
    standards in terms of automation and productivity and have the
    flexibility to accommodate future growth. The manufacturing
    operations at these facilities are designed to incorporate the
    cellular concept for production and to implement tenets of a
    manufacturing philosophy focused on continuous operational
    improvement. In addition, at certain of our manufacturing
    facilities, many of the employees are cross-trained.


 


    We generally target operating our manufacturing facilities at
    levels up to 90 percent of total capacity. We continually
    evaluate the potential to in-source products currently purchased
    from outside vendors to
    on-site
    production.


 


    Improving manufacturing process capability and productivity have
    been major contributors to improvement in profitability and
    offset the impact of inflationary costs. Major areas of
    improvement have included utilization of computer-assisted
    robots and multi-axis grinders to precision polish medical
    devices, automation of certain manufacturing and inspection
    processes including on-machine inspection and process controls,
    state-of-the-art equipment purchases and upgrades, in-sourcing
    of core products, such as castings and forgings, high-speed
    machining, and negotiated reductions in third party supplier
    costs.


 


    We use a diverse and broad range of raw materials in the
    manufacturing of our products. We purchase all of our raw
    materials and select components used in manufacturing our
    products from external suppliers. In addition, we purchase some
    supplies from single sources for reasons of quality assurance,
    sole source availability, cost effectiveness or constraints
    resulting from regulatory requirements. We work closely with our
    suppliers to assure continuity of supply while maintaining high
    quality and reliability. To date, we have not experienced any
    significant difficulty in locating and obtaining the materials
    necessary to fulfill our production schedules.


 



    INTELLECTUAL
    PROPERTY




 


    Patents and other proprietary rights are important to the
    continued success of our business. We also rely upon trade
    secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovation and
    licensing opportunities to develop and maintain our competitive
    position. We protect our proprietary rights through a variety of
    methods, including confidentiality agreements and proprietary
    information agreements with vendors, employees, consultants and
    others who may have access to proprietary information. We own or
    control through licensing arrangements more than 4,000 issued
    patents and patent applications throughout the world that relate
    to aspects of the technology incorporated in many of our
    products.


 



    EMPLOYEES




 


    We employ more than 7,600 employees worldwide, including
    more than 700 employees dedicated to research and
    development. Nearly 4,700 employees are located within the
    United States and approximately 2,900 employees are located
    outside of the United States, primarily throughout Europe and in
    Japan. We have over 3,300 employees dedicated to
    manufacturing our products worldwide. The Warsaw, Indiana
    production facility employs more than 1,500 employees.
    Fewer than 200 North American employees are members of a trade
    union covered by a collective bargaining agreement.


 


    In May 2007, we renewed a collective bargaining agreement with
    the United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber Manufacturing,
    Energy, Allied Industrial and Service Workers International
    Union for and on behalf of Local
    2737-15
    covering employees at the Dover, Ohio, facility which continues
    in effect until May 15, 2012.

 

 





 


    12




Table of Contents





    ZIMMER
    HOLDINGS,
    INC.                                                                                                                                                              2007

    FORM 10-K
    ANNUAL REPORT
    





 

 



    EXECUTIVE
    OFFICERS


 

 


    The following table sets forth certain information with respect
    to our executive officers as of January 31, 2008.


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	




    Name
    


 


    Age
    


 


    Position
    




 





    David C. Dvorak



 


    44


 


    President and Chief Executive Officer





    Cheryl R. Blanchard, Ph.D. 



 


    43


 


    Senior Vice President, Research and Development and Chief
    Scientific Officer





    Sheryl L. Conley



 


    47


 


    Group President, Americas and Global Marketing and Chief
    Marketing Officer





    James T. Crines



 


    48


 


    Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer





    Derek M. Davis



 


    38


 


    Vice President, Finance and Corporate Controller and Chief
    Accounting Officer





    Jon E. Kramer



 


    61


 


    President, U.S. Sales





    Bruno A. Melzi



 


    60


 


    Chairman, Europe, Middle East and Africa





    Stephen H.L. Ooi



 


    54


 


    President, Asia Pacific





    Chad F. Phipps



 


    36


 


    Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary





    









 


    Mr. Dvorak
    was appointed President, Chief Executive Officer and
    a member of the Board of Directors of Zimmer Holdings on
    May 1, 2007. From December 2005 to April 2007,
    Mr. Dvorak served as Group President, Global Businesses and
    Chief Legal Officer. From October 2003 to December 2005,
    Mr. Dvorak served as Executive Vice President, Corporate
    Services, Chief Counsel and Secretary, as well as Chief
    Compliance Officer. Mr. Dvorak was appointed Corporate
    Secretary in February 2003. He joined Zimmer Holdings in
    December 2001 as Senior Vice President, Corporate Affairs and
    General Counsel.


 


    Dr. Blanchard
    was appointed Senior Vice President, Research and
    Development and Chief Scientific Officer of Zimmer Holdings in
    December 2005. She is responsible for global research, global
    development, global quality, orthobiologics, external research
    and emerging technologies. From October 2003 to December 2005,
    Dr. Blanchard served as Vice President, Corporate Research
    and Clinical Affairs and from August 2002 to October 2003, she
    served as Vice President, Research and Biologics.


 


    Ms. Conley
    was appointed Group President, Americas and Global
    Marketing and Chief Marketing Officer of Zimmer Holdings in
    December 2005. She is responsible for all global marketing and
    all Western Hemisphere operations, including our business in the
    United States, Canada and Latin America. From October 2003 to
    December 2005, Ms. Conley served as President, Global
    Products Group and from September 2002 to October 2003, she
    served as President, Zimmer Reconstructive.


 


    Mr. Crines
    was appointed Executive Vice President, Finance and
    Chief Financial Officer of Zimmer Holdings on May 1, 2007.
    From December 2005 to April 2007, Mr. Crines served as
    Senior Vice President, Finance, Operations and Corporate
    Controller and Chief Accounting Officer. From October 2003 to
    December 2005, Mr. Crines served as Senior Vice President,
    Finance/Controller and Information Technology and from July 2001
    to October 2003, he served as Vice President, Finance/Controller.


 


    Mr. Davis
    was appointed Vice President, Finance and Corporate
    Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of Zimmer Holdings in
    May 2007. He has responsibility for internal and external
    reporting, planning and analysis, and corporate and business
    unit accounting. From March 2006 to May 2007, Mr. Davis
    served as Director, Financial Planning and Accounting. From
    December 2003 to March 2006, Mr. Davis served as Director,
    Finance, Operations and Logistics and from April 2003 to
    December 2003, he served as Associate Director, Finance. Prior
    to joining us, Mr. Davis served as Vice President
    Finance/Corporate Controller for International Wire in
    Fort Wayne, Indiana.


 


    Mr. Kramer
    was appointed President, U.S. Sales of Zimmer
    Holdings in December 2005. He is responsible for our sales
    activities throughout the United States. From August 2004 to
    December 2005, Mr. Kramer served as President, Americas.
    From October 2003 to August 2004, Mr. Kramer served as Vice
    President, U.S. Sales and from 2001 to October 2003, he was
    our Area Vice President for the Southeast region of the United
    States.


 


    Mr. Melzi
    was appointed Chairman, Europe, Middle East and
    Africa of Zimmer Holdings in October 2003. He is responsible for
    the sales, marketing and distribution of products in the
    European, Middle Eastern and African regions. From March 2000 to
    October 2003, Mr. Melzi served as President, Europe/MEA.


 


    Mr. Ooi
    was appointed President, Asia Pacific of Zimmer
    Holdings in December 2005. He is responsible for the sales,
    marketing and distribution of products in the Asia Pacific
    region, including responsibility for Japan. From September 2003
    to December 2005, Mr. Ooi served as President, Australasia,
    where he was responsible for operations in Asia Pacific,
    excluding Japan. From September 2002 to September 2003,
    Mr. Ooi served as President, Asia Pacific region.


 


    Mr. Phipps
    was appointed Senior Vice President, General Counsel
    and Secretary of Zimmer Holdings in May 2007. He has global
    responsibility for our legal affairs and he serves as Secretary
    to the Board of Directors. From December 2005 to May 2007,
    Mr. Phipps served as Associate General Counsel and
    Corporate Secretary and from September 2003 to December 2005, he
    served as Associate Counsel and Assistant Secretary. Prior to
    joining us, Mr. Phipps served as Vice President and General
    Counsel of L&N Sales and Marketing, Inc. in Pennsylvania.

 

 





 


    13




Table of Contents





    ZIMMER
    HOLDINGS,
    INC.                                                                                                                                                              2007

    FORM 10-K
    ANNUAL REPORT
    





 



    AVAILABLE
    INFORMATION




 


    Our Internet website address is www.zimmer.com. Our annual
    reports on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    current reports on
    Form 8-K
    and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are available or
    may be accessed free of charge through the Investor Relations
    section of our Internet website as soon as reasonably
    practicable after we electronically file such material with, or
    furnish it to, the SEC. Our Internet website and the information
    contained therein or connected thereto are not intended to be
    incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 


    The following corporate governance and related documents, among
    others, are available through our website or may be obtained in
    print form, without charge, by request to our Investor Relations
    Department: Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Business
    Conduct, Code of Ethics for Chief Executive Officer and Senior
    Financial Officers, Audit Committee Charter, Compensation and
    Management Development Committee Charter, Corporate Governance
    Committee Charter and Science and Technology Committee Charter.


 


    We intend to post on our Internet website any substantive
    amendment to, or waiver from, our Code of Ethics for Chief
    Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officers or a provision
    of our Code of Business Conduct that applies to any of our
    directors or executive officers.







    
    
    



    
    ITEM 1A.
    
    
    
    Risk Factors
    





    




 


    Risk factors which could cause actual results to differ from
    our expectations and which could negatively impact our financial
    condition and results of operations are discussed below and
    elsewhere in this report. The risks and uncertainties described
    below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and
    uncertainties not presently known to us or that are currently
    not believed to be significant to our business may also affect
    our actual results and could harm our business, financial
    condition and results of operations. If any of the risks or
    uncertainties described below or any additional risks and
    uncertainties actually occur, our business, results of
    operations and financial condition could be materially and
    adversely affected.


 



    RISKS RELATED TO
    OUR BUSINESS




 


    If we fail to comply with the terms of the Deferred
    Prosecution Agreement and Corporate Integrity Agreement we
    entered into in September 2007, we may be subject to criminal
    prosecution
    and/or
    exclusion from federal healthcare programs.


 


    As previously reported, on September 27, 2007, we settled
    an investigation conducted by the United States Attorney’s
    Office for the District of New Jersey (the
    “U.S. Attorney”) into financial relationships
    between major orthopaedic manufacturers and consulting
    orthopaedic surgeons. As part of that settlement, we entered
    into a Deferred Prosecution Agreement (the “DPA”) with
    the U.S. Attorney and a Corporate Integrity Agreement (the
    “CIA”) with the Office of Inspector General of the
    Department of Health and Human Services (the
    “OIG-HHS”). Copies of the DPA and CIA are filed as
    exhibits to this report and a copy of the DPA is available on
    our website at www.zimmer.com.


 


    The DPA has a term of 18 months and provides for oversight
    by a federally appointed monitor. If we breach the DPA, we could
    be subject to prosecution for violations of the federal
    Anti-Kickback Statute that the U.S. Attorney alleges we
    committed between 2002 and 2006, as well as any new or
    continuing violations. We could also be subject to exclusion by
    OIG-HHS from participation in federal healthcare programs,
    including Medicaid and Medicare. Any of these consequences would
    have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.


 


    The CIA requires us to continue our Corporate Compliance Program
    and to adhere to certain other provisions, including reporting
    requirements. We also agreed to retain an independent review
    organization to perform annual reviews to assist us in assessing
    our compliance with the CIA to ensure that arrangements we enter
    into do not violate the federal Anti-Kickback Statute. If we
    breach the CIA, the OIG-HHS may take further action against us,
    up to and including excluding us from participation in federal
    healthcare programs, which would have a material adverse effect
    on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.


 


    Our recent settlement with the Department of Justice and
    OIG-HHS could lead to further governmental investigations or
    actions by other third parties.


 


    As a result of the publicity surrounding our recent settlement
    with the Department of Justice and OIG-HHS, including the
    allegations of wrongdoing made by the U.S. Attorney, other
    governmental agencies, including state authorities, could
    conduct investigations or institute proceedings that are not
    precluded by terms of that settlement. As previously disclosed,
    the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has commenced an
    informal investigation into sales by us and other companies of
    medical devices in foreign countries. We are also cooperating
    with an investigative demand made by one state attorney general.
    While we believe that the pending state investigation is not
    likely to have a material adverse effect on our business or
    financial condition, similar investigations by other states or
    governmental agencies are possible. In addition, in January
    2008, we received a written request from the United States
    Senate Special Committee on Aging (“Committee”),
    seeking, among other things, additional information regarding
    the financial relationships we publicly disclosed pursuant to
    the DPA. We responded to this request in writing and through
    testimony before the Committee in February 2008. Also, as
    previously reported, two shareholder derivative actions were
    filed purportedly on our behalf against current and two former
    directors relating to oversight of the conduct that lead to the
    settlement with the U.S. Attorney. In addition, the
    settlement with the U.S. Attorney could increase our
    exposure to lawsuits by potential whistleblowers under the
    federal false claims acts, based on new theories or allegations
    arising from the allegations made by the U.S. Attorney. We
    intend to review and take appropriate actions with respect to
    any such investigations or proceedings; however, we cannot
    assure that

 

 





 


    14




Table of Contents





    ZIMMER
    HOLDINGS,
    INC.                                                                                                                                                              2007

    FORM 10-K
    ANNUAL REPORT
    






    the costs of defending or resolving those investigations or
    proceedings would not have a material adverse effect on our
    financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.


 


    If we are not able to fulfill or otherwise resolve our
    existing royalty and other payment obligations to consulting
    surgeons and institutions, our ability to maintain our existing
    intellectual property rights and obtain future rights may be
    impaired.


 


    We are reviewing agreements we have entered into with consulting
    surgeons and institutions and assessing whether we can fulfill
    our obligations under these agreements in view of the DPA. If we
    do not perform those obligations or reach some other resolution
    acceptable to the affected consulting surgeons and institutions,
    our ability to use the intellectual property covered by those
    agreements may be adversely affected. In addition, our ability
    to enter into new agreements with consulting surgeons or
    institutions for the future development of intellectual property
    rights may be adversely affected.


 


    Our ongoing efforts to enhance our Corporate Compliance
    Program globally will require cooperation by many employees and
    others and may divert substantial financial and human resources
    from our other business activities.


 


    We are committed to devoting sufficient resources to meet our
    obligations under the DPA and CIA. We have also announced our
    intention to further enhance our Corporate Compliance Program
    and to expand those enhancements into all of our businesses on a
    global basis. Successful implementation of this enhanced program
    will require the full cooperation of our employees, distributors
    and sales agents and the healthcare professionals with whom they
    interact. These efforts not only involve expense, but also
    require management and other key employees to focus extensively
    on these matters, preventing them from devoting as much time as
    they otherwise would to other business matters.


 


    In addition, if our competitors do not make similar enhancements
    to their compliance programs, this may place us at a competitive
    disadvantage and adversely affect our results of operations.


 


    If we fail to retain the independent agents and distributors
    upon whom we rely heavily to market our products, customers may
    not buy our products and our revenue and profitability may
    decline.


 


    Our marketing success in the United States and abroad depends
    significantly upon our agents’ and distributors’ sales
    and service expertise in the marketplace. Many of these agents
    have developed professional relationships with existing and
    potential customers because of the agents’ detailed
    knowledge of products and instruments. A loss of a significant
    number of these agents could have a material adverse effect on
    our business and results of operations. If some of the business
    practices of our independent sales agents and distributors are
    challenged as unlawful, they may have to change these practices,
    which could have a material adverse effect on our business and
    results of operations.


 


    If we do not introduce new products in a timely manner, our
    products may become obsolete over time, customers may not buy
    our products and our revenue and profitability may decline.


 


    Demand for our products may change, in certain cases, in ways we
    may not anticipate because of:





    
    



        • 

        evolving customer needs;




        • 

        changing demographics;




        • 

        slowing industry growth rates;




        • 

        declines in the reconstructive implant market;




        • 

        the introduction of new products and technologies;




        • 

        evolving surgical philosophies; and




        • 

        evolving industry standards.





 


    Without the timely introduction of new products and
    enhancements, our products may become obsolete over time. If
    that happens, our revenue and operating results would suffer.
    The success of our new product offerings will depend on several
    factors, including our ability to:





    
    



        • 

        properly identify and anticipate customer needs;




        • 

        commercialize new products in a timely manner;




        • 

        manufacture and deliver instruments and products in sufficient
    volumes on time;




        • 

        differentiate our offerings from competitors’ offerings;




        • 

        achieve positive clinical outcomes for new products;




        • 

        satisfy the increased demands by healthcare payors, providers
    and patients for shorter hospital stays, faster post-operative
    recovery and lower-cost procedures;




        • 

        innovate and develop new materials, product designs and surgical
    techniques; and




        • 

        provide adequate medical education relating to new products.





 


    In addition, new materials, product designs and surgical
    techniques that we develop may not be accepted quickly, in some
    or all markets, because of, among other factors:





    
    



        • 

        entrenched patterns of clinical practice;




        • 

        the need for regulatory clearance; and




        • 

        uncertainty with respect to third-party reimbursement.





 


    Moreover, innovations generally require a substantial investment
    in research and development before we can determine their
    commercial viability and we may not have the financial resources
    necessary to fund the production. In addition, even if we are
    able to successfully develop enhancements or new generations of
    our products, these enhancements or new generations of products
    may not produce revenue in excess of the costs of development
    and they may be quickly rendered obsolete by changing customer
    preferences or the introduction by our competitors of products
    embodying new technologies or features.


 


    We conduct a significant amount of our sales activity outside
    of the United States, which subjects us to additional business
    risks and may cause our profitability to decline due to
    increased costs.


 


    Because we sell our products in more than 100 countries, our
    business is subject to risks associated with doing business
    internationally. In 2007, we derived approximately
    $1,757.2 million, or 45% of our total revenue, from sales
    of our products outside of the United States. We intend to
    continue to pursue growth opportunities in sales
    internationally, which could expose us to additional risks
    associated with international sales and operations. Our
    international operations

 

 





 


    15




Table of Contents





    ZIMMER
    HOLDINGS,
    INC.                                                                                                                                                              2007

    FORM 10-K
    ANNUAL REPORT
    






    are, and will continue to be, subject to a number of risks and
    potential costs, including:





    
    



        • 

        changes in foreign medical reimbursement policies and programs;




        • 

        unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements;




        • 

        differing local product preferences and product requirements;




        • 

        fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates;




        • 

        diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries
    outside of the United States;




        • 

        trade protection measures and import or export requirements that
    may prevent us from shipping products to a particular market and
    may increase our operating costs;




        • 

        foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from
    repatriating cash earned in countries outside the United States;




        • 

        complex data privacy requirements and labor relations laws;




        • 

        extraterritorial effects of U.S. laws such as the Foreign
    Corrupt Practices Act;




        • 

        difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations;




        • 

        labor force instability;




        • 

        potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; and




        • 

        political and economic instability.





 


    Violations stemming from any of the above identified risks could
    result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or
    our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and
    damage to our reputation.


 


    We are subject to risks arising from currency exchange rate
    fluctuations, which can increase our costs and may cause our
    profitability to decline.


 


    A substantial portion of our foreign revenues are generated in
    Europe and Japan. The United States dollar value of our
    foreign-generated revenues varies with currency exchange rate
    fluctuations. Significant increases in the value of the United
    States dollar relative to the Euro or the Japanese Yen, as well
    as other currencies, could have a material adverse effect on our
    results of operations. We address currency risk management
    through regular operating and financing activities, and, on a
    limited basis, through the use of derivative financial
    instruments. The derivative financial instruments we enter into
    are in the form of foreign exchange forward contracts with major
    financial institutions. The forward contracts are designed to
    hedge anticipated foreign currency transactions, primarily
    intercompany sale and purchase transactions, for periods
    consistent with commitments. Realized and unrealized gains and
    losses on these contracts that qualify as cash flow hedges are
    temporarily recorded in other comprehensive income, and then
    recognized in earnings when the hedged item affects net earnings.


 


    We may fail to adequately protect our proprietary technology
    and other intellectual property, which would allow competitors
    or others to take advantage of our research and development
    efforts.


 


    Our long-term success largely depends on our ability to market
    technologically competitive products. If we fail to obtain or
    maintain adequate intellectual property protection, we may not
    be able to prevent third parties from using our proprietary
    technologies. Also, our currently pending or future patent
    applications may not result in issued patents. In the United
    States, patent applications are confidential for 18 months
    following their filing, and, because third parties may have
    filed patent applications for technology covered by our pending
    patent applications without our being aware of those
    applications, our patent applications may not have priority over
    patent applications of others. In addition, our issued patents
    may not contain claims sufficiently broad to protect us against
    third parties with similar technologies or products, or provide
    us with any competitive advantage. If a third party initiates
    litigation regarding our patents, our collaborators’
    patents, or those patents for which we have license rights, and
    is successful, a court could declare our patents invalid or
    unenforceable or limit the scope of coverage of those patents.


 


    The United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) and the
    courts have not consistently treated the breadth of claims
    allowed or interpreted in orthopaedic reconstructive implant and
    biotechnology patents. If the USPTO or the courts begin to allow
    or interpret claims more broadly, the incidence and cost of
    patent interference proceedings and the risk of infringement
    litigation will likely increase. On the other hand, if the USPTO
    or the courts begin to allow or interpret claims more narrowly,
    the value of our proprietary rights may be reduced. Any changes
    in, or unexpected interpretations of, the patent laws may
    adversely affect our ability to enforce our patent position.


 


    In addition, intellectual property rights may be unavailable or
    limited in some foreign countries, which could make it easier
    for competitors to capture market position. Competitors may also
    capture market share from us by designing products that mirror
    the capabilities of our products or technology without
    infringing our intellectual property rights. If we do not obtain
    sufficient international protection for our intellectual
    property, our competitiveness in international markets could be
    impaired, which would limit our growth and future revenue.


 


    We also rely upon trade secrets, proprietary know-how, and
    continuing technological innovation to remain competitive. We
    attempt to protect this information with security measures,
    including the use of confidentiality agreements with our
    employees, consultants, and collaborators. These individuals may
    breach these agreements and any remedies available to us may be
    insufficient to compensate our damages. Furthermore, our trade
    secrets, know-how and other technology may otherwise become
    known or be independently discovered by our competitors.


 


    We may be subject to intellectual property litigation and
    infringement claims, which could cause us to incur significant
    expenses or prevent us from selling our products.


 


    A successful claim of patent or other intellectual property
    infringement against us could adversely affect our growth and
    profitability, in some cases materially. From time to time, we
    receive notices from third parties of potential infringement and
    receive claims of potential infringement. We may be unaware of
    intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of
    our technology. If someone claims that our products infringed
    their intellectual property rights, any resulting litigation
    could be costly and time consuming and would divert the
    attention of management and key personnel from other business
    issues.

 

 





 


    16




Table of Contents





    ZIMMER
    HOLDINGS,
    INC.                                                                                                                                                              2007

    FORM 10-K
    ANNUAL REPORT
    






    The complexity of the technology involved and the uncertainty of
    intellectual property litigation increase these risks. Claims of
    intellectual property infringement also might require us to
    enter into costly royalty or license agreements. However, we may
    be unable to obtain royalty or license agreements on terms
    acceptable to us or at all. We also may be subject to
    significant damages or an injunction preventing us from
    manufacturing, selling or using some of our products in the
    event of a successful claim of patent or other intellectual
    property infringement. Any of these adverse consequences could
    have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
    condition and results of operations.


 


    We may complete additional acquisitions, which could increase
    our costs or liabilities or be disruptive.


 


    We intend to continue to look for additional strategic
    acquisitions of other businesses that are complementary to our
    businesses. Acquisition involves risk, including the following:





    
    



        • 

        we may need to divert more management resources to integration
    than we planned, which may adversely affect our ability to
    pursue other more profitable activities;




        • 

        the difficulties of integration may be increased if we need to
    integrate geographically separated organizations, personnel with
    disparate business backgrounds and companies with different
    corporate cultures;




        • 

        we may not eliminate as many redundant costs as we anticipated
    in selecting our acquisition candidates; and




        • 

        one or more of our acquisition candidates also may have
    liabilities or adverse operating issues that we failed to
    discover through our diligence prior to the acquisition.





 


    If we are unable to form strategic alliances, or if our
    strategic alliances fail to achieve their objectives, our
    operating results will be negatively impacted.


 


    We have entered into strategic alliances with other orthopaedic
    and biotechnology companies. These include our collaboration
    with ISTO Technologies, Inc. relating to regenerative cartilage
    technology and our distribution agreement with Heraeus relating
    to orthopaedic bone cement products. The success of these and
    similar arrangements is largely dependent on technology and
    other intellectual property contributed by our strategic
    partners or the resources, efforts and skills of these partners.
    Disputes and difficulties in such relationships are common,
    often due to conflicting priorities. Merger and acquisition
    activity may exacerbate these issues. The benefits of these
    alliances are reduced or eliminated when strategic partners:





    
    



        • 

        terminate the agreements or limit our access to the underlying
    intellectual property;




        • 

        fail to devote financial or other resources to the alliances and
    thereby hinder or delay development, manufacturing or
    commercialization activities;




        • 

        fail to successfully develop, manufacture or commercialize any
    products; or




        • 

        fail to maintain the financial resources necessary to continue
    financing their portion of the development, manufacturing, or
    commercialization costs or their own operations.





 


    Furthermore, under some of our strategic alliances, we may make
    milestone payments well in advance of commercialization of
    products with no assurance that we will ever recoup these
    payments. We also may make equity investments in our strategic
    partners. These investments may decline in value and result in
    our incurring financial statement charges in the future.


 


    We depend on a limited number of suppliers for some key raw
    materials and outsourced activities.


 


    We use a number of suppliers for raw materials that we need to
    manufacture our products and to outsource some key manufacturing
    activities. These suppliers must provide the materials and
    perform the activities to our standards for us to meet our
    quality and regulatory requirements. Some key raw materials and
    outsourced activities can only be obtained from a single source
    or a limited number of sources. A prolonged disruption or other
    inability to obtain these materials or outsource key
    manufacturing activities could materially and adversely affect
    our ability to satisfy demand for our products, which could have
    a material adverse effect on our business and results of
    operations.


 


    Our future profitability may be affected by changes to our
    product category and region sales mix.


 


    Reconstructive implants produce the highest operating profit
    margins among our product categories. These products accounted
    for approximately 84% of 2007 net sales. Sales in our
    Americas region accounted for approximately 58% of 2007 net
    sales. Sales in the Americas region produce the highest
    operating profit margins in the geographic markets in which we
    operate. While we expect net sales of reconstructive implants
    and net sales in the Americas region to remain strong, changes
    to our product category mix or our region sales mix could
    adversely affect our future profitability.


 



    RISKS RELATED TO
    OUR INDUSTRY




 


    The ongoing informal investigation by the United States
    Securities and Exchange Commission regarding potential
    violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act in the sale of
    medical devices in a number of foreign countries by companies in
    the medical device industry could have a material adverse effect
    on our business, financial condition and cash flows.


 


    We are cooperating fully with the Securities and Exchange
    Commission with regard to an ongoing informal investigation of
    potential violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act in the
    sale of medical devices in a number of foreign countries by
    companies in the medical device industry. The Foreign Corrupt
    Practices Act prohibits U.S. companies and their officers,
    directors, employees, stockholders acting on their behalf and
    agents from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments
    to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining
    business abroad or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment and
    this law requires companies to maintain records which fairly and
    accurately reflect transactions and to maintain internal
    accounting controls. In many countries, hospitals and clinics
    are government-owned and healthcare professionals employed by
    such hospitals and clinics, with whom we regularly interact,
    meet the definition of a foreign official for purposes of the
    Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Although we have adopted policies
    and procedures designed to prevent improper payments and we
    conduct training in this area, there

 

 





 


    17




Table of Contents





    ZIMMER
    HOLDINGS,
    INC.                                                                                                                                                              2007

    FORM 10-K
    ANNUAL REPORT
    






    can be no assurance that violations of these requirements do not
    occur in connection with sales of our medical devices. If we are
    found to have violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, we may
    face sanctions including fines, criminal penalties, disgorgement
    of profits and suspension or debarment of our ability to
    contract with governmental agencies or receive export licenses,
    which could have a material adverse effect on our business,
    financial condition and cash flows.


 


    We are subject to healthcare fraud and abuse regulations on
    an ongoing basis that could require us to change our business
    practices and restrict our operations in the future.


 


    Our industry is subject to various federal and state laws
    pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including false claims
    laws, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, similar state laws and
    physician self-referral laws. We settled alleged violations of
    the federal Anti-Kickback Statute in September 2007, but we
    remain subject to these laws on an ongoing basis. Violations of
    these laws are punishable by criminal
    and/or civil
    sanctions, including, in some instances, fines, imprisonment
    and, within the United States, exclusion from participation in
    government healthcare programs, including Medicare, Medicaid and
    Veterans Administration (VA) health programs. The interpretation
    and enforcement of these laws and regulations are uncertain and
    subject to rapid change. We are continuing to enhance our
    Corporate Compliance Program and monitoring our practices on an
    ongoing basis to better ensure that we have proper controls in
    place to comply with these laws.


 


    If third-party payors decline to reimburse our customers for
    our products or reduce reimbursement levels, the demand for our
    products may decline and our ability to sell our products
    profitably may be harmed.


 


    We sell our products and services to hospitals, doctors,
    dentists and other healthcare providers, all of which receive
    reimbursement for the healthcare services provided to their
    patients from third-party payors, such as domestic and
    international government programs, private insurance plans and
    managed care programs. These third-party payors may deny
    reimbursement if they determine that a device used in a
    procedure was not in accordance with cost-effective treatment
    methods, as determined by the third-party payor, or was used for
    an unapproved indication. Third-party payors may also decline to
    reimburse for experimental procedures and devices. If our
    products are not considered cost-effective by third-party
    payors, our customers may not be reimbursed for our products.


 


    In addition, third-party payors are increasingly attempting to
    contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level
    of reimbursement for medical products and services. For example,
    managed care programs often prescribe only those orthopaedic
    recovery products that match a patient as to age, need for
    mobility and other parameters in an effort to provide more
    cost-effective care. If third-party payors reduce reimbursement
    levels to hospitals and other healthcare providers for our
    products, demand for our products may decline or we may
    experience pressure to reduce the prices of our products, which
    could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of
    operations.


 


    In international markets, where the movement toward healthcare
    reform and the development of managed care are generally not as
    advanced as in the United States, we have experienced downward
    pressure on product pricing and other effects of healthcare
    reform. In Japan, for example, a government-operated insurance
    system reimburses customers for our products. Under this system,
    the Japanese government periodically reviews and reduces the
    reimbursement levels for products. If the Japanese government
    continues to reduce the reimbursement level for orthopaedic
    products, our sales and results of operations may be adversely
    affected.


 


    The ongoing cost-containment efforts of healthcare purchasing
    organizations may have a material adverse effect on our results
    of operations.


 


    Many customers for our products have formed group purchasing
    organizations in an effort to contain costs. Group purchasing
    organizations negotiate pricing arrangements with medical supply
    manufacturers and distributors, and these negotiated prices are
    made available to a group purchasing organization’s
    affiliated hospitals and other members. If we are not one of the
    providers selected by a group purchasing organization,
    affiliated hospitals and other members may be less likely to
    purchase our products, and, if the group purchasing organization
    has negotiated a strict compliance contract for another
    manufacturer’s products, we may be precluded from making
    sales to members of the group purchasing organization for the
    duration of the contractual arrangement. Our failure to respond
    to the cost-containment efforts of group purchasing
    organizations may cause us to lose market share to our
    competitors and could have a material adverse effect on our
    sales and results of operations.


 


    Our success depends on our ability to effectively develop and
    market our products against those of our competitors.


 


    We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our present or
    future products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by
    technological advances by one or more of our present or future
    competitors or by other therapies, including orthobiological
    therapies. To remain competitive, we must continue to develop
    and acquire new products and technologies.


 


    In the global markets for reconstructive orthopaedic implants,
    trauma products and other orthopaedic products, a limited number
    of competitors, including DePuy Orthopaedics, Inc. (a subsidiary
    of Johnson & Johnson), Stryker Corporation, Biomet,
    Inc., Wright Medical Group, Inc., Synthes, Inc. and
    Smith & Nephew plc, compete with us for the majority
    of product sales. In the spinal implant category, we compete
    globally primarily with Medtronic Sofamor Danek, Inc. (a
    subsidiary of Medtronic, Inc.), DePuy Spine (a subsidiary of
    Johnson & Johnson), Synthes, Inc., Stryker Corporation
    and EBI, L.P. (a subsidiary of Biomet, Inc.). In the dental
    reconstructive implant category, we compete primarily with Nobel
    Biocare Holding AG, Straumann Holding AG, and Implant
    Innovations, Inc. (a subsidiary of Biomet, Inc.). Competition is
    primarily on the basis of:





    
    



        • 

        technology;




        • 

        innovation;




 

 





 


    18




Table of Contents





    ZIMMER
    HOLDINGS,
    INC.                                                                                                                                                              2007

    FORM 10-K
    ANNUAL REPORT
    








    
    



        • 

        quality;




        • 

        reputation; and




        • 

        customer service.





 


    In markets outside of the United States, other factors influence
    competition as well, including:





    
    



        • 

        local distribution systems;




        • 

        complex regulatory environments; and




        • 

        differing medical philosophies and product preferences.





 


    Our competitors may:





    
    



        • 

        have greater financial, marketing and other resources than us;




        • 

        respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies;




        • 

        undertake more extensive marketing campaigns;




        • 

        adopt more aggressive pricing policies; or




        • 

        be more successful in attracting potential customers, employees
    and strategic partners.





 


    Any of these factors, alone or in combination, could cause us to
    have difficulty maintaining or increasing sales of our products.


 


    We and our customers are subject to various governmental
    regulations relating to the manufacturing, labeling and
    marketing of our products and we may incur significant expenses
    to comply with these regulations and develop products compatible
    with these regulations.


 


    The medical devices we design, develop, manufacture and market
    are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA and numerous other
    federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. The process
    of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a medical device,
    particularly from the FDA and certain foreign governmental
    authorities, can be costly and time consuming and approvals
    might not be granted for future products on a timely basis, if
    at all. Delays in receipt of, or failure to obtain, approvals
    for future products could result in delayed realization of
    product revenues or in substantial additional costs which could
    have a material adverse effect on our business or results of
    operations.


 


    In addition, if we fail to comply with applicable FDA medical
    device or other material regulatory requirements, including, for
    example, the Quality System Regulation, recordkeeping
    regulations, labeling requirements and adverse event reporting
    regulations, that failure could result in, among other things:





    
    



        • 

        warning letters;




        • 

        fines or civil penalties;




        • 

        injunctions;




        • 

        repairs, replacements or refunds;




        • 

        recalls or seizures of products;




        • 

        total or partial suspension of production;




        • 

        the FDA’s refusal to grant future premarket clearances or
    approvals;




        • 

        withdrawals or suspensions of current product applications; and




        • 

        criminal prosecution.





 


    Any of these actions, in combination or alone, could have a
    material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and
    results of operations.


 


    In many of the foreign countries in which we market our
    products, we are subject to regulations affecting, among other
    things:





    
    



        • 

        clinical efficacy;




        • 

        product standards;




        • 

        packaging requirements;




        • 

        labeling requirements;




        • 

        import/export restrictions;




        • 

        tariff regulations;




        • 

        duties; and




        • 

        tax requirements.





 


    Many of the regulations applicable to our devices and products
    in these countries, such as the European Medical Devices
    Directive, are similar to those of the FDA. In addition, in many
    countries the national health or social security organizations
    require our products to be qualified before they can be marketed
    with the benefit of reimbursement eligibility. Failure to
    receive, or delays in the receipt of, relevant foreign
    qualifications also could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, financial condition and results of operations.


 


    As both the FDA and foreign government regulators have become
    increasingly stringent, we may be subject to more rigorous
    regulation by governmental authorities in the future. Our
    products and operations are also often subject to the rules of
    industrial standards bodies, such as the International Standards
    Organization. If we fail to adequately address any of these
    regulations, our business will be harmed.


 


    We may incur product liability losses, and insurance coverage
    may be inadequate or unavailable to cover these losses.


 


    Our business is subject to potential product liability risks
    that are inherent in the design, development, manufacture and
    marketing of medical devices. Our products are often used in
    surgical and intensive care settings. In addition, some of the
    medical devices we manufacture and sell are designed to be
    implanted in the human body for long periods of time. In the
    ordinary course of business, we are the subject of product
    liability lawsuits alleging that component failures,
    manufacturing flaws, design defects or inadequate disclosure of
    product-related risks or product-related information resulted in
    an unsafe condition or injury to patients. Product liability
    lawsuits and claims, safety alerts or product recalls,
    regardless of their ultimate outcome, could have a material
    adverse effect on our business and reputation and on our ability
    to attract and retain customers.


 


    As part of our risk management policy, we maintain third-party
    product liability insurance coverage. However, product liability
    claims against us may exceed the coverage limits of our
    insurance policies or cause us to record a self-insured loss.
    Even if any product liability loss is covered by an insurance
    policy, these policies may have substantial retentions or
    deductibles that provide that we will not receive insurance
    proceeds until the losses incurred exceed the amount of those
    retentions or deductibles. We will be responsible for paying any
    losses that are below those retentions or deductibles. A product
    liability claim in excess of applicable insurance could have a
    material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and
    results of operations.


 







    
    
    



    
    ITEM 1B