ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSThe Company’s Board of Directors has established a Risk Oversight Committee of the Board, approved an Enterprise Risk Management policy, and appointed an Enterprise Risk Management Committee consisting of senior management to oversee and implement the policy. In addition to credit and interest rate risk, these committees also monitor the following risk areas: strategic risk, market risk, liquidity risk, compliance risk, compensation-related risk, operational risk, information technology risk, and reputation risk.The following list describes several risk factors which are significant to the Company, including but not limited to:Credit quality has adversely affected us and may adversely affect us in the future.Credit risk is one of our most significant risks. If the strength of the U.S. economy in general and the strength of the local economies in which we and our subsidiary banks conduct operations declined, this could result in, among other things, deterioration in credit quality and/or reduced demand for credit, including a resultant adverse effect on the income from our loan portfolio, an increase in charge-offs and an increase in the allowance for loan and lease losses.We have concentrations of risk in our loan portfolio, including loans secured by real estate and energy-related lending, which may have unique risk characteristics that may adversely affect our results.Concentration or counterparty risk could adversely affect the Company. Concentration risk across our loan and investment portfolios could pose significant additional credit risk to the Company due to exposures which perform in a similar fashion. Counterparty risk could also pose additional credit risk.Most of our subsidiary banks engage in both commercial term and land acquisition, development and construction lending, primarily in our Western states footprint, and the Company as a whole has relatively larger concentrations of such lending than many peer institutions. In addition, we have a concentration in energy-related lending, primarily in our Amegy Bank subsidiary. Both commercial real estate and energy lending are subject to specific risks, including volatility and potential significant and prolonged declines in collateral values and activity levels. In addition, our real estate lending is concentrated in the Western states, and values there may behave differently than in other parts of the United States. We may have other unidentified concentrated or correlated risks in our loan portfolio.Failure to effectively manage our interest rate risk and prolonged periods of low interest rates could adversely affect us.Net interest income is the largest component of the Company’s revenue. The management of interest rate risk for the Company and its subsidiary banks is centralized and overseen by an Asset Liability Management Committee appointed by the Company’s Board of Directors. Failure to effectively manage our interest rate risk could adversely affect us. Factors beyond the Company’s control can significantly influence the interest rate environment and increase the Company’s risk. These factors include competitive pricing pressures for our loans and deposits, adverse shifts in the mix of deposits and other funding sources, and volatile market interest resulting from general economic conditions and the policies of governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular the FRB.13Table of ContentsThe Company remains in an “asset sensitive” interest rate risk position, which means that net interest income would be expected to increase if interest rates increase, and to decline if interest rates decrease. Most recently, the FRB has indicated that it expects to be “patient” with respect to the timing and amount of any rate increases.Our estimates of our interest rate risk position for noninterest-bearing demand deposits are dependent on assumptions for which there is little historical experience, and the actual behavior of those deposits in a changing interest rate environment may differ materially from our estimates, which could materially affect our results of operations.We have experienced a low interest rate environment for the past several years. Our views with respect to, among other things, the degree to which we are “asset-sensitive,” including our interest rate risk position for noninterest-bearing demand deposits, are dependent on modeled projections that rely on assumptions regarding changes in balances of such deposits in a changing interest rate environment. Because there is no modern precedent for the prolonged, extremely low interest rate environment that has prevailed for the last several years, there is little historical experience upon which to base such assumptions. If interest rates begin to increase, our assumptions regarding changes in balances of noninterest-bearing demand deposits and regarding the speed and degree to which other deposits are repriced may prove to be incorrect, and business decisions made in reliance on our modeled projections and underlying assumptions could prove to be unsuccessful. Because noninterest-bearing demand deposits are a significant portion of our deposit base, errors in our modeled projections and the underlying assumptions could materially affect our results of operations. We have been and could continue to be negatively affected by adverse economic conditions.The United States and many other countries recently faced a severe economic crisis, including a major recession from which the recovery has been slow. These adverse economic conditions have negatively affected the Company’s assets, including its loans and securities portfolios, capital levels, results of operations, and financial condition. In response to the economic crisis, the United States and other governments established a variety of programs and policies designed to mitigate the effects of the crisis. While these programs and policies may have had a stabilizing effect in the United States following the severe financial crisis that occurred in the second half of 2008, troubling economic conditions continue to exist in the United States and globally. Most of these programs have expired, however, the FRB and central banks in other countries continue to pursue monetary policies that have resulted in an unusual period of very low interest rates. However, the full impact of these policies on, among other things, general economic activity and asset values that serve as collateral for loans extended by the Company, for example, real estate values, how long these policies may persist, and the impacts of withdrawing those policies, is unclear and may not be known for some time. It is possible that economic conditions may again become more severe or that weak economic conditions may continue for a substantial period of time. Economic and fiscal conditions in the United States and other countries may directly or indirectly adversely impact economic and market conditions faced by the Company and its customers. Any increase in the severity or duration of adverse economic conditions, including a recession or continued weak economic recovery, would adversely affect the Company.Economic and other circumstances may require us to raise capital at times or in amounts that are unfavorable to the Company.The Company and its subsidiary banks must maintain certain risk-based and leverage capital ratios as required by their banking regulators, which can change depending upon general economic conditions, hypothetical future adverse economic scenarios, and the particular conditions, risk profiles and growth plans of those entities. Compliance with capital requirements may limit the Company’s ability to expand and has required, and may require, the Company to raise additional capital, or additional capital investment from the Parent or its subsidiaries. These uncertainties and risks, including those created by legislative and regulatory uncertainties, may increase the Company’s cost of capital and other financing costs.Our business is highly correlated to local economic conditions in a specific geographic region of the United States.As a regional bank holding company, the Company provides a full range of banking and related services through its banking and other subsidiaries in Arizona, California, Colorado, Idaho, Nevada, New Mexico, 14Table of ContentsOregon, Texas, Utah, Washington, and Wyoming. Approximately 82% of the Company’s total net interest income for the year ended December 31, 2014 and 77% of total assets as of December 31, 2014 relate to the subsidiary banks in Utah, Texas and California. As a result of this geographic concentration, our financial results depend largely upon economic conditions in these market areas. Accordingly, adverse economic conditions affecting these three states in particular could significantly affect our consolidated operations and financial results. For example, our credit risk could be elevated to the extent that our lending practices in these three states focus on borrowers or groups of borrowers with similar economic characteristics, which are similarly affected by the same adverse economic events. As of December 31, 2014, loan balances at our subsidiary banks in Utah, Texas and California comprised 82% of the Company’s commercial lending portfolio, 75% of the commercial real estate lending portfolio, and 69% of the consumer lending portfolio. Loans originated by these banks are primarily to borrowers in their respective states, with the exception of the National Real Estate group owner-occupied loan portfolio held by our Utah subsidiary bank.Catastrophic events including, but not limited to, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, fires, floods, and prolonged drought, may adversely affect the general economy, financial and capital markets, specific industries, and the Company.The Company has significant operations and a significant customer base in Utah, Texas, California and other regions where natural and other disasters may occur. These regions are known for being vulnerable to natural disasters and other risks, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, fires, floods, and prolonged drought. These types of natural catastrophic events at times have disrupted the local economy, the Company’s business and customers, and have posed physical risks to the Company’s property. In addition, catastrophic events occurring in other regions of the world may have an impact on the Company’s customers and in turn on the Company. A significant catastrophic event could materially adversely affect the Company’s operating results.Problems encountered by other financial institutions could adversely affect financial markets generally and have indirect adverse effects on us.The commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships between the institutions. As a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. This is sometimes referred to as “systemic risk” and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which we interact on a daily basis, and therefore could adversely affect us.We and/or the holders of our securities could be adversely affected by unfavorable rating actions from rating agencies.Our ability to access the capital markets is important to our overall funding profile. This access is affected by the ratings assigned by rating agencies to us, certain of our affiliates, and particular classes of securities that we and our affiliates issue. The rates that we pay on our securities also are also influenced by, among other things, the credit ratings that we, our affiliates, and/or our securities receive from recognized rating agencies. Ratings downgrades to us, our affiliates, or our securities could increase our costs or otherwise have a negative effect on our results of operations or financial condition or the market prices of our securities.The Dodd-Frank Act imposes significant limitations on our business activities and subjects us to increased regulation and additional costs.The Dodd-Frank Act has material implications for the Company and the entire financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Act places significant additional regulatory oversight and requirements on financial institutions, particularly those with more than $50 billion of assets, including the Company. In addition, among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act:•affects the levels of capital and liquidity with which the Company must operate and how it plans capital and liquidity levels (including a phased-in elimination of the Company’s existing trust preferred securities as Tier 1 capital);15Table of Contents•subjects the Company to new and/or higher fees paid to various regulatory entities, including but not limited to deposit insurance fees to the FDIC;•impacts the Company’s ability to invest in certain types of entities or engage in certain activities;•impacts a number of the Company’s business strategies;•requires us to incur the cost of developing substantial heightened risk management policies and infrastructure;•regulates the pricing of certain of our products and services and restricts the revenue that the Company generates from certain businesses;•subjects the Company to new capital planning actions, including stress testing or similar actions and timing expectations for capital-raising;•subjects the Company to supervision by the CFPB, with very broad rule-making and enforcement authorities;•grants authority to state agencies to enforce state and federal laws against national banks;•subjects the Company to new and different litigation and regulatory enforcement risks; and•limits the manner in which compensation is paid to executive officers and employees generally.The Company and the entire financial services industry have incurred and will continue to incur substantial personnel, systems, consulting, and other costs in order to comply with new regulations promulgated under the Dodd-Frank Act, particularly with respect to stress testing and risk management. Because the responsible agencies are still in the process of proposing and finalizing many of the regulations required under the Dodd-Frank Act, the full impact of this legislation on the Company and the financial services industries, business strategies, and financial performance cannot be known at this time, and may not be known for some time. Individually and collectively, regulations adopted under the Dodd-Frank Act may materially adversely affect the Company’s and the financial services industry’s business, financial condition (including the Company’s ability to compete effectively with less regulated financial services providers), and results of operations.As a regulated entity, we are subject to capital and liquidity requirements that may limit our operations and potential growth.We are a bank holding company and a financial holding company. As such, we and our subsidiary banks are subject to the comprehensive, consolidated supervision and regulation of the FRB, the OCC (in the case of our national subsidiary banks) and the FDIC, including risk-based and leverage capital ratio requirements, and Basel III liquidity requirements. Capital needs may rise above normal levels when we experience deteriorating earnings and credit quality, and our banking regulators may increase our capital requirements based on general economic conditions and our particular condition, risk profile and growth plans. In addition, we may be required to increase our capital levels even in the absence of actual adverse economic conditions or forecasts as a result of stress testing and capital planning based on hypothetical future adverse economic scenarios. Compliance with the capital requirements, including leverage ratios, may limit operations that require the intensive use of capital and could adversely affect our ability to expand or maintain present business levels. For a summary of recently announced capital rules, see “Capital Standards – Basel Framework” in “Supervision and Regulation” on page 8 of MD&A in this Form 10-K.Stress testing and capital management under the Dodd-Frank Act may limit our ability to increase dividends, repurchase shares of our stock, and access the capital markets.Under the CCAR, we are required to submit to the Federal Reserve each year our capital plan for the applicable planning horizon, along with the results of required stress tests. Each annual capital plan will, among other things, specify our planned actions with respect to dividends, redemptions, repurchases, capital raising, and similar matters and will be subject to the objection or non-objection by the Federal Reserve. Moreover, the CCAR process requires us to analyze the pro forma impact on our financial condition of various hypothetical future adverse economic scenarios selected by us or the Federal Reserve. We must maintain or raise capital sufficient to meet our risk management and regulatory expectations under such hypothetical scenarios. Similarly, Dodd-Frank Act Stress Tests (“DFAST”) are stress tests run by the Federal Reserve using its 16Table of Contentsproprietary models to analyze the Company’s stressed capital position. In order to receive a “non-objection” from the Federal Reserve to its capital plan, it must pass both the Federal Reserve’s quantitatively modeled stress capital and a qualitative examination of its CCAR submission and capital plan. As required by the Dodd-Frank Act we also submit stress tests to the OCC (for Amegy and Zions) and FDIC (for CB&T) for our subsidiary banks with assets in excess of $10 billion. The severity of the hypothetical scenarios devised by the FRB and other bank regulators and employed in these stress tests is undefined by law or regulation, and is thus subject solely to the discretion of the regulators. The stress testing and capital planning processes may, among other things, require us to increase our capital levels, limit our dividends or other capital distributions to shareholders, modify our business strategies, or decrease our exposure to various asset classes.Under stress testing and capital management standards implemented by bank regulatory agencies under the Dodd-Frank Act, we may declare dividends, repurchase common stock, redeem preferred stock and debt, access capital markets for certain types of capital, make acquisitions, and enter into similar transactions only if included in a capital plan to which the FRB has not objected. Any similar transactions not contemplated in our annual capital plan, other than those with a de minimus impact on actual or projected capital, may require a new stress test and capital plan, which is subject to FRB non-objection. These requirements may significantly limit our ability to respond to and take advantage of market developments.We increasingly use models in the management of the Company, and in particular in the required stress testing and capital plan. There is risk that these models are incorrect or inaccurate in various ways, which can cause us to make non-optimal decisions, and this risk causes the Company to hold additional capital as a buffer against that risk.We attempt to carefully develop, document, back test, and validate the models used in the management of the Company, including, for example, models used in the management of interest rate and liquidity risk, and those used in projecting stress losses in various segments of our credit and securities portfolios, and projecting net revenue under stress. Models are inherently imperfect for a number of reasons, however, and cannot perfectly predict outcomes. Management decisions based in part on such models, therefore, can be suboptimal. In addition, in determining the Company’s capital needs under stress testing, we attempt to specifically quantify the amounts by which model results could be incorrect, and we hold material additional amounts of capital as a buffer against this “model risk.”New liquidity regulations, including regulations establishing a minimum Liquidity Coverage Ratio (“LCR”) and requiring monthly liquidity stress testing applicable to the Company may impact profitability.The Company is subject to new liquidity regulations, including a requirement that it conduct monthly liquidity stress tests starting in January 2015, and that subject it to a new requirement that it maintain a modified LCR of at least 100% effective January 1, 2016. Current liquidity stress tests indicate that the Company is in compliance with the modified LCR requirement. Such stress testing is subject to ongoing model and assumptions changes which could affect results.In order to meet the requirements of these new regulations, the Company expects to hold a higher portion of its assets in High Quality Liquid Assets (“HQLA”) and a lower portion of its assets in loans than was generally the case prior to such regulation. HQLA generally have lower yields than loans of the type made by the Company. The regulation of incentive compensation under the Dodd-Frank Act may adversely affect our ability to retain our highest performing employees.The bank regulatory agencies have published guidance and proposed regulations which limit the manner and amount of compensation that banking organizations provide to employees. These regulations and guidance may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key personnel. If we were to suffer such adverse effects with respect to our employees, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, perhaps materially.17Table of ContentsIncreases in FDIC insurance premiums may adversely affect our earnings.Our deposits are insured by the FDIC up to legal limits and, accordingly, we are subject to FDIC insurance assessments. During 2008 and 2009, higher levels of bank failures dramatically increased resolution costs of the FDIC and depleted the deposit insurance fund. In addition, the FDIC instituted two temporary programs to further insure customer deposits at FDIC insured banks. These programs, which have since expired, placed additional stress on the deposit insurance fund. In order to maintain a strong funding position and restore reserve ratios of the deposit insurance fund, the FDIC has increased assessment rates of insured institutions. Further, under the Dodd-Frank Act, the assessment base was expanded to include non-deposit liabilities. We generally have only limited ability to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay the FDIC for insurance. Changes in our required insurance premium payments may adversely impact our earnings. Other legislative and regulatory actions taken now or in the future may have a significant adverse effect on our operations.In addition to the Dodd-Frank Act described previously, bank regulatory agencies and international regulatory consultative bodies have proposed or are considering new regulations and requirements, some of which may be imposed without formal promulgation.There can be no assurance that any or all of these regulatory changes or actions will ultimately be adopted. However, if adopted, some of these proposals could adversely affect the Company by, among other things: impacting after-tax returns earned by financial services firms in general; limiting the Company’s ability to grow; increasing taxes or fees on some of the Company’s funding or activities; limiting the range of products and services that the Company could offer; and requiring the Company to raise capital at inopportune times.The ultimate impact of these proposals cannot be predicted as it is unclear which, if any, may be adopted.We could be adversely affected by accounting, financial reporting, and regulatory and compliance risk.The Company is exposed to accounting, financial reporting, and regulatory/compliance risk. The Company provides to its customers, invests in, and uses for its own capital, funding, and risk management needs a number of complex financial products and services. Estimates, judgments, and interpretations of complex and changing accounting and regulatory policies are required in order to provide and account for these products and services. Changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial results and conditions. The level of regulatory/compliance oversight has been heightened in recent periods as a result of rapid changes in regulations that affect financial institutions. The administration of some of these regulations and related changes has required the Company to comply before their formal adoption. Identification, interpretation and implementation of complex and changing accounting standards as well as compliance with regulatory requirements therefore pose an ongoing risk.We could be adversely affected by legal and governmental proceedings.We are subject to risks associated with legal claims, fines, litigation, and regulatory and other government proceedings. The Company’s exposure to these proceedings has increased and may further increase as a result of stresses on customers, counterparties and others arising from the past or current economic environments, new regulations promulgated under recently adopted statutes, the creation of new examination and enforcement bodies, and increasingly aggressive enforcement and legal actions against banking organizations.The quality and liquidity of our asset-backed investment securities portfolio has adversely affected us and may continue to adversely affect us.The Company’s asset-backed investment securities portfolio includes CDOs collateralized primarily by trust preferred securities issued by bank holding companies. Many factors, some of which are beyond the Company’s control, significantly influence the fair value and impairment status of these securities. These factors include, but are not limited to, defaults, deferrals and restructurings by debt issuers, the views of banking regulators, changes in our accounting treatment with respect to these securities, rating agency downgrades of securities, limited market pricing of securities, or market pricing that varies from the Company’s current model valuations, and changes in prepayment rates and future interest rates. The occurrence of one or more of these factors could result in additional OTTI charges with respect to our CDO portfolio, which could be material. 18Table of ContentsThe Company may not be able to utilize the significant deferred tax asset recorded on its balance sheet.The Company’s balance sheet includes a significant deferred tax asset. The largest components of this asset result from additions to our allowance for loan and lease losses for purposes of generally accepted accounting principles in excess of loan losses actually taken for tax purposes and other-than-temporary impairment losses on our securities portfolio that have not yet been realized for tax purposes by selling the securities. Our ability to continue to record this deferred tax asset is dependent on the Company’s ability to realize its value through net operating loss carrybacks or future projected earnings. Loss of part or all of this asset would adversely impact tangible capital. In addition, inclusion of this asset in determining regulatory capital is subject to certain limitations. Currently no deferred tax assets are disallowed for regulatory purposes either on a consolidated basis or at any of the Company’s subsidiary banks. We could be adversely affected by failure in our internal controls.A failure in our internal controls could have a significant negative impact not only on our earnings, but also on the perception that customers, regulators and investors may have of the Company. We continue to devote a significant amount of effort, time and resources to improving our controls and ensuring compliance with complex accounting standards and regulations.Our information systems may experience an interruption or security breach.We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. We, our customers, and other financial institutions with which we interact, are subject to ongoing, continuous attempts to penetrate key systems by individual hackers, organized criminals, and in some cases, state-sponsored organizations. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems, misappropriation of funds, and theft of proprietary Company or customer data. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the possible failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failure, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability.We are making a significant investment to replace our core loan and deposit systems and to upgrade our accounting systems. The actual duration, cost, expected savings, and other factors to implement these initiatives may vary significantly from our estimates, which could materially affect the Company, including its results of operations.During 2013, our Board of Directors approved a significant investment by us to replace our loan and deposit systems and to upgrade our accounting systems. The new integrated system for most of our loans and deposits is expected to employ technology that is a significant improvement over our current systems. These initiatives will be completed in phases to allow for appropriate testing and implementation so as to minimize time delays and cost overruns. However, these initiatives are in the early stages and by their very nature, projections of duration, cost, expected savings, and related items are subject to change and significant variability.We may encounter significant adverse developments in the completion and implementation of these initiatives. These may include significant time delays, cost overruns, and other adverse developments that could result in disruptions to our systems and adversely impact our customers.We have plans, policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the negative effect of these adverse developments. However, there can be no assurance that any such adverse developments will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately remediated. The occurrence of any adverse development could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could materially affect the Company, including its results of operations in any given reporting period. 19Table of ContentsOur results of operations depend upon the performance of our subsidiaries.We are a holding company that conducts substantially all of our operations through our banking and other subsidiaries. The Parent receives substantially all of its revenues from dividends from its subsidiaries. These dividends are a principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common and preferred stock and interest and principal on our debt. We and certain of our subsidiaries experienced periods of unprofitability or reduced profitability during the recent severe recession. The ability of the Company and its subsidiary banks to pay dividends is restricted by regulatory requirements, including profitability and the need to maintain required levels of capital. Lack of profitability or reduced profitability exposes us to the risk that regulators could restrict the ability of our subsidiary banks to pay dividends. It also increases the risk that the Company may have to establish a “valuation allowance” against its net deferred tax asset or have that asset disallowed for regulatory capital purposes. The ability of our subsidiary banks to pay dividends or make other payments to us is also limited by their obligations to maintain sufficient capital and by other general regulatory restrictions on their dividends. If they do not satisfy these regulatory requirements, we may be unable to pay interest on our indebtedness. The OCC, the primary regulator for certain of our subsidiary banks, has issued policy statements generally requiring insured banks only to pay dividends out of current earnings. In addition, if, in the opinion of the applicable regulatory authority, a bank under its jurisdiction is engaged in or is about to engage in an unsafe or unsound practice, which could include the payment of dividends, such authority may take actions requiring that such bank refrain from the practice. Payment of dividends could also be subject to regulatory limitations if a subsidiary bank were to become “under-capitalized” for purposes of the applicable federal regulatory “prompt corrective action” regulations.ITEM 1B