ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORSThe Company’s Board of Directors has established a Risk Oversight Committee and an Enterprise Risk Management policy and has appointed an Enterprise Risk Management Committee to oversee and implement the policy. In addition to credit and interest rate risk, the Committee also monitors the following risk areas: market risk, liquidity risk, operational risk, compliance risk, information technology risk, strategic risk, compensation-related risk, and reputation risk.The following list describes several risk factors which are significant to the Company including but not limited to:The Company has been and could continue to be negatively affected by adverse economic conditions. 13Table of ContentsThe United States and many other countries recently faced a severe economic crisis, including a major recession. These adverse economic conditions have negatively affected the Company’s assets, including its loans and securities portfolios, capital levels, results of operations, and financial condition. In response to the economic crisis, the United States and other governments established a variety of programs and policies designed to mitigate the effects of the crisis. These programs and policies appear to have had a stabilizing effect in the United States following the severe financial crisis that occurred in the second half of 2008, but adverse economic conditions continue to exist in the United States and globally. Concerns about the European Union’s sovereign debt crisis have continued to cause uncertainty for financial markets globally. It is possible economic conditions may again become more severe or that adverse economic conditions may continue for a substantial period of time. In addition, economic uncertainty resulting from possible changes in the ratings of sovereign debt issued by the United States and other nations, and fiscal imbalances in the United States, at federal, state and municipal levels, in the European Union and in other countries, combined with political difficulties in resolving these imbalances, may directly or indirectly adversely impact economic conditions faced by the Company and its customers. Any increase in the severity or duration of adverse economic conditions, including a recession or continued weak economic recovery, would adversely affect the Company.Our information systems may experience an interruption or security breach. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. We, our customers, and other financial institutions with which we interact, are subject to ongoing, continuous attempts to penetrate key systems by individual hackers, organized criminals, and in some cases, state-sponsored organizations. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems, misappropriation of funds, and theft of proprietary Company or customer data. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the possible failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failure, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability. The regulation of incentive compensation under the Dodd-Frank Act may adversely affect our ability to retain our highest performing employees.The bank regulatory agencies have published guidance and proposed regulations which limit the manner and amount of compensation that banking organizations provide to employees. These regulations and guidance may adversely affect our ability to retain key personnel. If we were to suffer such adverse effects with respect to our employees, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, perhaps materially.Stress testing and capital management under Dodd-Frank may limit our ability to increase dividends, repurchase shares of our stock, and access the capital markets.Under stress testing and capital management standards implemented by bank regulatory agencies under Dodd-Frank, we may declare dividends, repurchase common stock, redeem preferred stock and debt, access capital markets for certain types of capital, make acquisitions, and enter into similar transactions only with bank regulatory approval. Any transactions not contemplated in our annual capital plan will require FRB approval. These limitations may significantly limit our ability to respond to and take advantage of market developments. The Dodd-Frank Act imposes significant new limitations on our business activities and subjects us to increased regulation and additional costs.The Dodd-Frank Act has material implications for the Company and the entire financial services industry. The Act places significant additional regulatory oversight and requirements on financial institutions, including the Company, with more than $50 billion of assets. In addition, among other things, the Act:14Table of Contents•affects the levels of capital and liquidity with which the Company must operate and how it plans capital and liquidity levels (including a phased-in elimination of the Company’s existing trust preferred securities as Tier 1 capital); •subjects the Company to new and/or higher fees paid to various regulatory entities, including but not limited to deposit insurance fees to the FDIC;•impacts the Company’s ability to invest in certain types of entities or engage in certain activities;•impacts a number of the Company’s business and risk management strategies;•regulates the pricing of certain of our products and services and restricts the revenue that the Company generates from certain businesses;•subjects the Company to new capital planning actions, including stress testing or similar actions and timing expectations for capital-raising;•subjects the Company to supervision by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, with very broad rule-making and enforcement authorities;•grants authority to state agencies to enforce state and federal laws against national banks;•subjects the Company to new and different litigation and regulatory enforcement risks; and•limits the amount and manner of compensation paid to executive officers and employees generally.Because the responsible agencies are still in the process of proposing and finalizing many of the regulations required under the Dodd-Frank Act, the full impact of this legislation on the Company, its business strategies, and financial performance cannot be known at this time, and may not be known for some time. Individually and collectively, regulations adopted under the Dodd-Frank Act may materially adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations.U.S. regulatory agencies, in response to the adoption of Basel III and Title I of the Dodd-Frank Act, will require us to raise our capital and liquidity to levels that may exceed those that the market considers to be optimal.Basel III was adopted in December 2010, and was updated in January 2013, by the BCBS and provides an international framework for the establishment of bank capital and liquidity standards. Title I of the Dodd-Frank Act requires that banking organizations of our size undergo regular stress testing of their capital, assets and profitability and authorizes bank regulatory agencies to promulgate new capital and liquidity standards. In 2012, the U.S. bank regulatory agencies published proposed regulations that, consistent with Basel III and the Dodd-Frank Act, would redefine the components of capital and require higher capital ratios for all banking organizations. The U.S. banking agencies are currently developing proposed rules to implement the Basel III liquidity framework for U.S. banking organizations. Maintaining higher capital and liquidity levels may reduce our profitability and performance measures.Economic and other circumstances may require us to raise capital at times or in amounts that are unfavorable to the Company.The Company’s subsidiary banks must maintain certain risk-based and leverage capital ratios as required by their banking regulators which can change depending upon general economic conditions and their particular condition, risk profile and growth plans. Compliance with capital requirements may limit the Company’s ability to expand and has required, and may require, capital investment from the Parent. These uncertainties and risks created by the legislative and regulatory uncertainties discussed above may themselves increase the Company’s cost of capital and other financing costs.Credit quality has adversely affected us and may continue to adversely affect us.Credit risk is one of our most significant risks. Although most credit quality indicators continued to improve during 2012, the Company’s credit quality may continue to show weakness in some loan types and markets in which the Company operates as the economic recovery progresses.15Table of ContentsIf the strength of the U.S. economy in general and the strength of the local economies in which we and our subsidiary banks conduct operations decline further, this could result in, among other things, further deterioration in credit quality and/or continued reduced demand for credit, including a resultant adverse effect on the income from our loan portfolio, an increase in charge-offs and an increase in the allowance for loan and lease losses; if such developments occur, we may be required to raise additional capital.Failure to effectively manage our credit concentration or counterparty risk could adversely affect us.Increases in concentration or counterparty risk could adversely affect the Company. Concentration risk across our loan and investment portfolios could pose significant additional credit risk to the Company due to exposures which perform in a similar fashion. Counterparty risk could also pose additional credit risk, but it is routinely monitored and analyzed.Failure to effectively manage our interest rate risk and prolonged periods of low interest rates could adversely affect us.Net interest income is the largest component of the Company’s revenue. The management of interest rate risk for the Company and its subsidiary banks is centralized and overseen by an Asset Liability Management Committee appointed by the Company’s Board of Directors. We have been successful in our interest rate risk management as evidenced by achieving a relatively stable net interest margin over the last several years when interest rates have been volatile and the rate environment challenging; however, a failure to effectively manage our interest rate risk could adversely affect us. Factors beyond the Company’s control can significantly influence the interest rate environment and increase the Company’s risk. These factors include competitive pricing pressures for our loans and deposits, adverse shifts in the mix of deposits and other funding sources, and volatile market interest rates subject to general economic conditions and the policies of governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular the FRB. The Company remains in an “asset sensitive” interest rate risk position, and the FRB has stated its expectations that short-term interest rates may remain low until unemployment is reduced to below 6.5% or inflationary expectations exceed 2.5%. Such a scenario may continue to create or exacerbate margin compression for us as a result of repricing of longer-term loans.Our ability to maintain required capital levels and adequate sources of funding and liquidity has been and may continue to be adversely affected by market conditions.We are required to maintain certain capital levels in accordance with banking regulations and any capital requirements imposed by our regulators. We must also maintain adequate funding sources in the normal course of business to support our operations and fund outstanding liabilities. Our ability to maintain capital levels, sources of funding, and liquidity has been and could continue to be impacted by changes in the capital markets in which we operate and deteriorating economic and market conditions.Each of our subsidiary banks must remain well-capitalized and meet certain other requirements for us to retain our status as a financial holding company. Failure to comply with those requirements could result in a loss of our financial holding company status if such conditions are not corrected within 180 days or such longer period as may be permitted by the FRB, although we do not believe that the loss of such status would have an appreciable effect on our operations or financial results. In addition, failure by our bank subsidiaries to meet applicable capital guidelines or to satisfy certain other regulatory requirements can result in certain activity restrictions or a variety of enforcement remedies available to the federal regulatory authorities that include limitations on the ability to pay dividends, the issuance by the regulatory authority of a capital directive to increase capital and the termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC.16Table of ContentsFunding availability continued to improve during 2012. However, because liquidity stresses are often a consequence of the occurrence of other risks, they will continue to be a risk factor in 2013 and beyond for the Company, the Parent and its subsidiary banks.The quality and liquidity of our asset-backed investment securities portfolio has adversely affected us and may continue to adversely affect us.The Company’s asset-backed investment securities portfolio includes collateralized debt obligations collateralized by trust preferred securities issued by bank holding companies, insurance companies, and REITs that may have some exposure to construction loan, commercial real estate, and the subprime markets and/or to other categories of distressed assets. In addition, asset-backed securities also include structured asset-backed CDOs (also known as diversified structured finance CDOs) which have exposure to subprime and home equity mortgage securitizations. Many factors, some of which are beyond the Company’s control, significantly influence the fair value and impairment status of these securities. These factors include, but are not limited to, prepayments, defaults, deferrals and restructurings by debt issuers, the views of banking regulators, changes in our accounting treatment with respect to these securities, rating agency downgrades of securities, lack of market pricing of securities, or the return of market pricing that varies from the Company’s current model valuations, and changes in prepayment rates and future interest rates. For example, during the fourth quarter of 2012, we disclosed our expectation that increased prepayments experienced in our CDO portfolio during the fourth quarter would lead to higher other-than-temporary impairment charges as a result of the use of higher constant prepayment rate speeds in our valuation models for these securities.  Additionally we also disclosed that, following discussions with federal banking regulators, we were reviewing assumptions in our valuation models for certain bank holding company trust preferred securities that underlie certain of our CDO securities – namely, those that are currently deferring distributions and nearing the end of their deferral periods. We disclosed that, in combination with the effect of the higher CPR speeds, this could lead to the incurrence of significant OTTI in our CDO portfolio. The occurrence of one or more of these factors could result in additional OTTI charges with respect to our CDO portfolio, which could be material. See “Investment Securities Portfolio” on page 49 for further details.We and/or the holders of our securities could be adversely affected by unfavorable rating actions from rating agencies.Our ability to access the capital markets is important to our overall funding profile. This access is affected by the ratings assigned by rating agencies to us, certain of our affiliates, and particular classes of securities that we and our affiliates issue. The interest rates that we pay on our securities are also influenced by, among other things, the credit ratings that we, our affiliates, and/or our securities receive from recognized rating agencies. In the past, rating agencies have downgraded our credit ratings. Further downgrades to us, our affiliates, or our securities could increase our costs or otherwise have a negative effect on our results of operations or financial condition or the market prices of our securities.We could be adversely affected by accounting, financial reporting, and regulatory and compliance risk.The Company is exposed to accounting, financial reporting, and regulatory/compliance risk. The level of regulatory/compliance oversight has been heightened in recent periods as a result of rapid changes in regulations that affect financial institutions. The administration of some of these regulations and related changes has required the Company to comply before their formal adoption.The Company provides to its customers, invests in, and uses for its own capital, funding, and risk management needs, a number of complex financial products and services. Estimates, judgments, and interpretations of complex and changing accounting and regulatory policies are required in order to provide and account for these products and services. Changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial results and conditions. Identification, interpretation and implementation of complex and changing accounting standards as well as compliance with regulatory requirements therefore pose an ongoing risk.  17Table of ContentsWe could be adversely affected by legal and governmental proceedings.The Company is subject to risks associated with legal claims, fines, litigation, and regulatory and other government proceedings. The Company’s exposure to these proceedings has increased and may further increase as a result of stresses on customers, counterparties and others arising from the current economic environment; new regulations promulgated under recently adopted statutes; and the creation of new examination and enforcement bodies.We could be adversely affected by failure in our internal controls.A failure in our internal controls could have a significant negative impact not only on our earnings, but also on the perception that customers, regulators and investors may have of the Company. We continue to devote a significant amount of effort, time and resources to continually strengthening our controls and ensuring compliance with complex accounting standards and regulations.We could be adversely affected as a result of acquisitions.From time to time the Company makes acquisitions including the acquisition of assets and liabilities of failed banks from the FDIC acting as a receiver. The FDIC-supported transactions are subject to loan loss sharing agreements. Failure to comply with the terms of the agreements could result in the loss of indemnification from the FDIC. The success of any acquisition depends, in part, on our ability to realize the projected cost savings from the acquisition and on the continued growth and profitability of the acquisition target. We have been successful with most prior acquisitions, but it is possible that the merger integration process with an acquired company could result in the loss of key employees, disruptions in controls, procedures and policies, or other factors that could affect our ability to realize the projected savings and successfully retain and grow the target’s customer base and revenues.ITEM 1B